WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria’s Minister of Water Resources, Engr Suleiman Adamu has presented award to staffs of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources as they celebrated the year 2022 Civil Service Day . The Ministry started the celebration of the year 2022 Nigeria Civil Service Day with a Staff procession/Road show from the Headquarters of the Ministry, Old Secretariat, Area 1 to Area 3 Football Field, Tuesday in Abuja. A Novelty football match between the Hon. Minister’s team and Permanent Secretary’s team of the Ministry was on display to mark this epic making event of the year 2022 Civil Service Day of the Water Ministry. Performing the kick off of the Novelty match was a Special Guest, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Alhaji Ismail Abubakar. The winner of the Novelty match after 45 minutes of serious tackles from both Teams was the Hon. Minister’s team through a penalty shootout. To honour the winner, the Director, General Services Mr. Kayode Adamson on behalf of the Hon. Minister, Engr. Suleiman Adamu, presented them with a  trophy for their outstanding performance. In continuation of the celebration, a Town Hall meeting was held at Peach Vine Marquee, Park Wuye, Abuja. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mrs. Esther Didi Walson-Jack, welcomed all Invited Guests, Staff and Management of the Ministry to the Town Hall meeting. According to her, the Civil Service Week celebration in Nigeria is in compliance with the 1999 Tangler Declaration by African Ministers for Public Service which set aside June 23rd every year for the celebration of African Public Service Day (APSD) to recognize the values and virtues of the Service to the community. She highlighted some of the programmes the Ministry has embarked upon to improve the welfare of Staff, some of which are; completion of Ministry’s Welfare Projects (Canteen, Clinic and Gym) and commencement of their operations, the Implementation of the Ministry’s Rewards and Recognition Policy System, Various Capacity Building Programmes for Staff, as well as Staff promotion etc. The Permanent Secretary further noted that for the 2021 Federal Civil Service Week, the management of the Ministry undertook series of events to say “thank you” to the Ministry’s Essential  Workers for rendering exceptional public service during the unusual and trying time of COVID-19 pandemic and for this, the Ministry of Water Resources was highly commended by the OHOCSF for going the extra mile in organizing a fun-filled and meaningful celebration of the Ministry Staff to mark the 2021 Federal Civil Service Week. The Town hall meeting witnessed lots of exciting activities which include; Drama presentation, Quiz, Testimonies, Fastest Finger and Raffle Draw. Others are presentation of awards to some outstanding Staff of the Ministry by Hon. Minister as well as launching/presentation of the Staff Welfare Newsletter of the Ministry by Mr.  Mbaike Chuks Norbert D (HRM), office of the Head of Service who is the representative of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr (Mrs.) Folasade Yemi-Esan as well as the presentation of SOPs Document to the Minister,  by the Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Didi Walson-Jack. The DG, BPSR, Mr. Dasuki I. Arabi and MD, CGC, Fan Xiao Jing and MD, Upper Niger River Basin Authority, Prof. M.O. Ali  gave Goodwill messages at the occasion.