*Akeredolu directs flags to fly at half-mast for 7 days *Minister directs NEMA to assess humanitarian situation *Tinubu donates N75m to victims, church WorldStage Newsonline– Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State, Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, Senior civil servants, Catholic lawyers, Pilgrims commission boss have joined list of prominent people that condemned the killing of worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, on Sunday. Oyetola in a statement issued by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, on Sunday in Osogbo described the attack as barbaric, wicked and an act of unprovoked aggression against innocent people. Oyetola sympathised with the government and people of Ondo State over the incident. “While expressing sympathy to the families of those killed in the attack, especially to the Catholic Diocese of Ondo and the government of Ondo State, we are also assuring Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu and the government of Ondo State of our support in any and every way possible. “We will continue to uphold our collective resolve at all levels to confront these evil doers till the frontiers of bloodshed is totally wiped out . “We pray God to grant the families of the victims of this very unfortunate incidence the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss and pray for quick recovery of all those who sustained various forms of injuries,” he said. OWO ATTACK, BARBARIC – MAKINDE Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has described the attack on worshipers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, which left many dead, as barbaric and condemnable. In a statement issued on Monday in Ibadan by his Special Assistant on Print Media, Mr Moses Alao,  the governor expressed his condolences to his Ondo State counterpart, Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, as well as to the families of the victims. Makinde called on security agencies to bring the perpetrators of the heinous crime to book. He said: “My deepest condolences to my brother, His Excellency, Rotimi Akeredolu, the people of Owo, families of the victims and Ondo State, on the dastardly attack on worshipers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo. “May the souls of the victims rest in peace. “This unprovoked and barbaric attack is condemnable in its entirety. “I urge the security agencies to ensure that the perpetrators are found and brought to book, ” Makinde said. SENIOR CIVIL SERVANTS CONDEMN ACT The Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) has condemned  in totality the killing of some worshippers by gunmen in the early hours of June 5, 2022 in Ondo State. ASCSN’s President, Mr Tommy Okon, in a statement on Sunday, also, expressed condolence to the bereaved families and government of the state. “My beloved Comrades, with a heavy heart, and solemn moment, I bring you fraternal greetings and heartfelt condolences from the leadership of the ASCSN to the government and good people of Ondo state. “In particular, the people of Owo for the gruesome murder of innocence and armless worshippers of the Christian faith today. “We condemn in totality this bastard act by the terrorists who are bent on destabilising and destroying Nigeria. “This indeed is very painful and sorrowful, especially at this point of our quest for a better Nigeria where lives and properties of the citizenry   should be protected by the government, “ he said. The labour leaders, however, urged governments at all levels to brace up, and ensure that lives and properties of the citizenry were  protected in line with the provisions of the1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). Okon said: “We pray for the souls of the departed worshippers to have eternal rest!”. PILGRIMS COMMISSION BOSS CONDEMNS KILLINGS The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev  Yakubu Pam, has condemned the killings of Catholic faithful at Saint Francis Catholic Church , Owo, Ondo  state on Sunday. In a statement released in Abuja on Monday by the Head, Media and Public Relations of the Commission, Celestine Toruka, described the killings of innocent worshippers as cowardly and inhuman . He explained that the Church would not be intimidated by the actions of few disgruntled elements in the society who were bent on  destabilising the peace of this nation. Rev. Pam urged the security agencies to up their game by fishing out the perpetrators of the heinous and callous act. He commiserated with the Governor of Ondo State , Chief Rotimi Akeredolu and the people of the state over the monumental loss. The NCPC boss affirmed  that light  would certainly shine  over forces of darkness no matter how long it took. OBASEKI CONDEMNS OWO ATTACK Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo has condemned, in the strongest terms, the weekend’s attack on worshipers at St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State. The governor’s condemnation is contained in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media Project, Mr Crusoe Osagie on Monday in Benin. Obaseki said that the mindless act had tilted the scale in the nation’s war against terror. The governor said, “I condemn in the strongest terms the attack on innocent people in St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State, which led to the gruesome killing of many, including women and children. “This mindless act committed in a church where many gathered to seek spiritual solace and worship God, has tilted the scale in our nation’s war against terror. “I commiserate with families that lost loved ones in this act of shame which has never before been heard of in the history of Owo, a quiet and peaceful town with inextricable ties with the people of Edo State. “I also express my condolences to my colleague, the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, as well as all the people of Ondo State. “Let me assure you all that in this dark and desperate time in our history as one people separated by a very intangible geographical boundary, you are not alone. “You can count on our prayers, support and cooperation as we all wade through this tough time together, as we take steps to ensure that the perpetrators of this dastardly act are apprehended. “And that this cowardly act of terror is never perpetrated in our land ever again. “Please accept my most heartfelt condolences,” he said CATHOLIC LAWYERS CONDEMN KILLING The National Association of Catholic Lawyers (NACL) has described as cruel, the killing of worshippers on Sunday at a Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State. President of NACL, Mr Chukwuemeka Ezeala, said, in a statement on Monday, that the worshippers were massacred in cold blood. According to Ezeala, it is cruel and sacrilegious that innocent worshippers are attacked in the serene town of Owo and massacred in cold blood. “The National Association of Catholic Lawyers condemns in absolute terms the reckless and abominable crime perpetrated by the monsters. “May the souls of the martyrs rest in the Lord,” he said. Ezeala condoled the Catholic Bishop of Akure and the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria on the loss. He prayed God to console the families of the dead and grant quick recovery to the wounded. He called on the state government to arrest and prosecute those involved in the abominable act. TINUBU DONATES A National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Bola Tinubu, has donated N75 million to the victims of Sunday’s gunmen attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo. Tinubu, a presidential aspirant on the platform of APC, made the donation on Monday in Owo, during his visit to commiserate with Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu and the people of the town. Akeredolu, who announced the donation at the palace of Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Ogunoye, thanked the APC leader for the gesture. According to the governor, N50 million will go to victims of the attack and N25 million to the Catholic Diocese of Ondo. Earlier, the former Lagos State governor said the security apparatus should be enhanced in tackling the current security challenges in the country. Tinubu tasked the government at all levels to ensure the protection of lives and property. He prayed God to console the families of the deceased and grant the community and the state government the fortitude to bear the loss. Responding, the Olowo of Owo urged  government to do the needful and ensure that those involved in the dastardly attack were arrested. AKEREDOLU DIRECTS FLAGS TO FLY AT HALF-MAST FOR 7 DAYS Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has directed that flags should be flown at half-mast in all public buildings, facilities and official residences for seven days in honour of the victims of the Owo terror attack on Sunday. This is contained in a statement issued by the Akeredolu’s Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde on Monday  in Akure. ”In honour of the victims of this unfortunate attack, I hereby direct that all flags be flown at half-mast for seven days, starting from Monday to June 12. ” It is a collective loss to the people of our dear state. ”The attack on innocent worshipers at the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street,Owo is a deliberate and calculated assault on the people of the state. ”Those who unleashed this unprovoked terror attack on our people have tested our collective resolves. ”We will not be deterred in responding appropriately to this dastardly act,” he said. NEMA ASKED TO ASSESS HUMANITARIAN SITUATION Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has directed the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to immediately provide succour to the victims and families of the Owo bomb attack. The directive is contained in a statement on Monday. Farouq described the murder as cold blooded, evil and horrific. “Officials from NEMA, Ekiti Operation Office have arrived at the Federal Medical Center, Owo where the dead were taken to and the injured are being treated. “NEMA is already conducting an on-the- spot assessment of the victims and the casualties”. “Meanwhile, Mr Kadiri Olarenwaju, Head NEMA Ekiti Operations Office, covering Ekiti, Ondo and Osun states has reported the admission of 22 adults and 11 children to the emergency wards at the Owo,” Farouq said. She commiserated with the families of the dead, the Catholic Church, the people and Government of Ondo State. “This killing is horrific and mindless. The killing of many worshippers inside St Francis Catholic Church on a Sunday morning is condemnable. “A lot of men, women, young girls and children had their lives snuffed out during a church service in Owo. “I mourn with their families and state government as well as the church. We pray for the repose of their souls,” she said.