WorldStage Newsonline– National Independent Electoral Comission (INEC)  has direct all political parties to upload list of democratic nominated candidates to the INEC Candidate Nomination portal before it deadline as it says it has eliminated the physical interface with party officials. The commission also noted that the portal will automatically shut down at 6.00pm (1800hrs) on Friday 17th June 2022 for national elections and 6.00pm (1800hrs) on Friday 15th July 2022 for State elections. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at a meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) on Thursday in Abuja, said to achieve a smooth upload of nominated candidates on it portal, four officials of each of the 18 political parties had been trained on procedure for uploading nomination forms to the dedicated web portal. Prof. Yakubu added that Confidential Access Codes to the portal had been given to each Political Party to facilitate the uploading of its nominations. He said, “Turning to the nomination of candidates by Political Parties for the 2023 General Election, all primaries end today Thursday 9th June 2022. For the next one week from tomorrow 10th June 2022, all Political Parties are required to submit their list of candidates for national elections (Presidential/Vice Presidential, Senatorial and House of Representatives) latest by Friday 17th June 2022. “For State elections (Governorship/Deputy Governorship and State Houses of Assembly), the list of candidates shall be uploaded from 1st to 15th July 2022 as already provided in the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2023 General Election already released by the Commission.” On voter registration, he said “Nigerians may recall that last year, the Commission resumed the current nationwide CVR exercise. An elaborate calendar of activities spanning over 12 months was released. The introduction of the online pre-registration system and the new INEC Voter Enrollment Device (IVED) helped to reduce the long queues witnessed in the previous registration exercise in 2017 and 2018. “We also created additional registration centres and deployed more machines. In three States (Anambra, Ekiti and Osun), the exercise was devolved to Ward level to give more citizens the opportunity to register ahead of their off-cycle Governorship elections. Similarly, on weekly basis since 5th July 2021, the Commission has been giving weekly detailed updates on fresh registrations nationwide.” He however explained that exercise was disrupted by general insecurity in some places. He said,  “In other places, our Local Government Areas offices were consistently attacked resulting in the suspension of all activities, including voter registration. A number of IVED machines were snatched and uncollected Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) destroyed. Worse, our registration officials were violently attacked. Some of them were abducted but later released. In one sad incident, an official lost his life. “Despite these challenges, the CVR has continued nationwide. However, as the deadline for the suspension of the current exercise approaches, the Commission has received reports of a surge in the number of prospective registrants that daily throng our State and Local Government Area offices as well as designated centres in many States across the country. “I wish to reassure Nigerians that the Commission remains committed to ensuring that all citizens who wish to register are given the opportunity to do so. This is one of the reasons why this meeting has been convened. Already, some of the Resident Electoral Commissioners have requested for more voter registration machines to ease the congestion. “The Commission will deploy additional machines to areas of need immediately. Thereafter, the Commission will meet to review the progress of the exercise and take further decisions. We will always respond positively to the needs of Nigerians and therefore appeal to all citizens to be patient with the Commission as we strive to serve them better. We appreciate the desire of Nigerians to register as voters. Let me reassure all eligible registrants that no one will be left out.”