As Ekiti prepares for June 18 governorship election, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it has detected 47,633 double voter registrations on its portal. INEC’s Head, Information and Communication Technology, Titilayo Oderinde, disclosed this in Ado Ekiti on Saturday at a workshop, organised for journalists in the state, ahead of the forthcoming governorship poll. Oderinde said that the registration of those affected had been invalidated with the aid of Bimodal Voter Authentication System (BVAS) invented by INEC in order to prevent double voting during the election. Oderinde, while elucidating on the BVAS application and its significance to the credibility of elections, said that no individual could exercise double franchise during election, with the help of the ICT innovation. He said: “During the just-concluded continuous voter registration exercise, a total of 124,963 people registered in Ekiti. “However, it will surprise you that when the figure was subjected to BVAS scrutiny, a total of 47,633 people were discovered to have registered twice and removed from the total number that registered. “This is not peculiar to a particular gender, as the offence was committed by both genders. “But, I see no reason why people should be doing this when they can approach the commission for migration of their polling units, even if they have left their environment for other locations,” Oderinde said. Also addressing the participants, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Ekiti, Dr Adeniran Tella, appealed to voters not to treat their PVCs as instruments for mere identification, saying that they were to be used to vote on election day. “PVCs are not designed as identification cards. They are for voting. We want to do away with this voter apathy and we are starting with Ekiti election,” he said. Tella, however, saluted the women for participating well in the registration, saying that 71 per cent of them had collected their PVCs. “We are assuring people living with disabilities (PLWDs) that their interests will be protected by the commission. “They are Nigerians with inalienable rights to vote and we shall provide enabling environment for them to vote in this election. We have made adequate provisions for them,” he said. Mr Festus Okoye, INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, also said that part of the constitutional frameworks for the success of any election was freedom of the press. He, however, warned that this should not be abused in order to prevent violence during elections. “Before journalists can monitor elections in any state, they must have good knowledge of the social, political, economic and geographical compositions of such state. “They must also understand the security situation, because it differs from state to state. “They must equally have deep knowledge of the laws guiding the conduct of elections and must know what they permit regarding the information they dish out. “Media practitioners are not permitted to give out any information that can mislead the populace and ignite violence on the day of election. They have to be accurate,” he said. Okoye appealed to media practitioners to be neutral, non-partisan, ethical and professional in the discharge of their duties during the forthcoming election in the state. This, he said, had become imperative so that an election that would be acceptable to all could be conducted. DEPLOY 3,346 BVAS, 10,269 POLLING OFFICIALS INEC on Saturday said it would deploy 3,346 Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) and 10,269 polling officials in the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti. Dr Tella Rahmon, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Ekiti State, disclosed this at the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room Dialogue in Abuja. The session which was organised by the coalition of CSOs, was supported by the United Kingdom Foreign, Common Wealth and Development Office (FCDO) to get an update on the preparation of INEC ahead of the June 18  Ekiti governorship poll . Rahmon said that the Ekiti governorship election would be conducted in 16 Local Government Areas (LGAs) with 988,923 registered voters. “We have taken delivery of 3,346 BVAS for the election. All the BVAS have been fully charged with backup power bank with standby generators for the exercise. “We have conducted mock test  and all the BVAS  worked well and all adhoc staff  have been trained  on how to use the BVAS.The handling of the BVAS have been well understood  by them . “Therefore, we are not envisaging any lapses from the use of the technology.’’ According to Rahmon, 10,269 polling officials will be deployed based  on the 10,455 polling units  in the state. “The figure is analyzed as follows :2,455 presiding officers, one to each Polling Unit (PU), 2,455 Assistant Presiding Officer I (APO I) , then the APO II is  2455,APO III, 20,455 with the total of 9780 officials. “This is with the five per cent contingency backup which made it 10,269. “The other categories of personnel are 245 supervisory presiding officers, alongside this, we have 177 registration area collation officers among others.’’ Rahmon said all was set for the conduct of the governorship election, adding that the non-sensitive materials were being deployed already, while  the sensitive ones would  be distributed on  June 16. He said there were 114 Registration Area Centres (RACs) and all waiting for  activation which  usually took place on the eve of elections. He added that all the activation materials had been released to the electoral officers. He said arrangements had been made with transporters to transfer the materials on election day, adding that all means of  convenience had been  provided to the ad hoc staff. He said adequate security measures would  be provided  at the RACs  and super RACs  for ad hoc staff and materials, hence violence would be curbed. Rahmon added that the commission monitored the party primaries and no serious threats to the election were recorded. “We do not foresee anything going wrong with the election. “I assure CSOs and Nigerians that we will not disappoint them,’’ he said. The Convener of the Situation Room, Ene Obi, said that the dialogue was important for many reasons – ranging from the fact that Ekiti had a history of election violence as seen in 2009 and 2021. “ There were reports of several incidents of political violence and killings, leading to suspension of elections on election day. “Notwithstanding, the primary elections by political parties ahead of the  governorship elections in the state and indeed 2023 general elections had been full of some incidents of violence. “This is a worrisome trend, ahead of the governorship elections. Secondly, INEC will be deploying the BVAS which will be used in the first   major election since it was introduced. Obi expressed the hope that the BVAS would  perform optimally and better than what was seen in Anambra and the FCT elections . She said that the group also wanted to get an update on the plans for Persons With Disabilties (PWDs), security situation among others, ahead of the elections .