The Vice-Chancellor of Elizade University, Ilara-Mokin, Ondo State, Prof. Olukayode Amund, says the institution has zero tolerance for drug abuse, cultism and indecent conduct by its students. Amund stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at the university campus, Ilara-Mokin, on Thursday. “Our disciplinary measures are very strict here in curbing social vices. In any human environment, you always find deviants because it is not an assembly of saints. “So you find people who disobey the rules; commit some criminal offences. So, we have caught people trying to go contrary to the laid down rules. “We also conduct drug tests and if we find any trace of marijuana or other illicit drug in you, even if you have consumed it before coming to campus, you’re expelled. “On cultism, that one will not even come here. They know where to go,” he stated. The vice chancellor explained that the institution had produced no fewer than 6,000 graduates from six different sets since inception. Amund expressed the determination of the university to be a globally competitive institution that produces entrepreneurial, innovative and ethically sound graduates. He added that the university encouraged its students to stand out in their various fields of endavours. “We get feedbacks from our products. “Some of them are entrepreneurs and employers of labour. “When you do well in a project, the founder of the university, Chief Ade Ojo, gives you N5 million to start you up and that is awarded at every convocation. “Also, two people are sponsored every year to go into ventures. You will submit a proposal and whichever proposals are found attractive are funded. “So, there is a fund the founder has put in place for that; and a number of our students are doing very well. Some of them are in fashion, gas marketing and other areas. “We are really competing favourably with our peers in the industry because we are one of the best in the country,” he said According to him, over 27 academic programmes run in the university are accredited by the National Universities Commission. Amund expressed optimism that the university would soon start running Medicine and Surgery programme. “Our ultimate goal is to run a College of Medicine. We have started with para-medical programmes such as Bachelor of Nursing Sciences, and Laboratory Medical Sciences. “These medical sciences will metamorphosise into a bigger College of Medicine in the future. So, we are on course to do that and be running the college in the nearest future,” he said.