Mrs Marie-Jeanne Ntakirutimana, Ambassador of Burundi to Nigeria has called on potential investors to invest in her country’s agriculture, mining and other sectors. Ntakirutimana made the call at a news briefing on Wednesday in Abuja ahead of the  60th Independence Anniversary. Ntakirutimana in her speech titled “Burundi as the heart of Africa” said that “the Burundi of today is a free country, where many dreams can be achieved regardless of gender, political ideologies and religious beliefs.’’ She said that Agriculture was the base of the Burundi’s economy hence “the country is seeking Nigerians to invest in the sector to boost the country’s economy. “Burundi wants to develop her agriculture sector. And I tell you, we have many kinds of produce. We do not have industries to transform them. “We have cassava, we need the industry to preserve them for a long time so they get destroyed. “That is why we need a lot of investors in agriculture. “We also need cement factories. The Dangote cement is imported through the Zambian, it is a very big cost. If the industry is implanted in Burundi, it will be a good luck to us”, Ntakirutimana said. Ntakirutimana said Burundi and Nigeria have very good relations with so many Nigerians already living and working in different sectors in Burundi. “The Embassy of Burundi in Nigeria was established  in 2008. “That means that since that time, Nigeria and  Burundi exchanged technologies,  goods and teachers. “We have also been helping in constructions; there are some Nigerians who want to build infrastructure, offices. We cooperate also on political and security issues,” she said. Ntakirutimana said that Burundi in the heart of Africa is rich is diverse culture and heritage and Burundian President, Evariste Ndayishimiye has invested so much in the tourism sector. She said that to encourage and support the tourism industry, the government of Burundi since 2021 has made it possible to obtain visas on arrival for all international citizens. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigeria and Burundi established diplomatic relations in 1963 and regards each other as important strategic partners. Since the establishment of diplomatic ties, there has been an  all-dimensional and high-quality cooperation between Nigeria and Burundi.