WorldStage Newsonline– President Muhammadu Buhari has described the just-concluded presidential primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as one of the most competitive and peaceful in the history of Nigeria’s democracy. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, in a statement, said the president stated this in a letter addressed to Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and Chairman, Progressives Governor Forum. The president commended the role played by Bagudu in the success of the primary that produced the standard-bearer of the party in the 2023 elections, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He said: ‘‘I was pleased to see how you were very professional and efficient in handling the sensitive political position of Chairman Progressives Governors Forum. ‘‘Your commitment in pursuit of equity and fairness speaks volumes in the cooperation displayed by APC Governors. This indeed demonstrates the camaraderie that brought us together over eight years ago. ‘‘The party primaries were peacefully conducted and the delegates have selected the candidate who will carry the APC flag in the 2023 Presidential elections. ‘‘Today, as a patriotic APC member and stakeholder, I trust that you will come together to work with our candidate to win the 2023 elections. ‘‘In the past seven years in government, we have achieved a lot. However, we have a lot more to do. The APC project is far from over and we need all of you to come together to ensure our progressive journey to peace and prosperity is sustained. ‘‘Our candidate, His Excellency, Sen, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is no stranger to you. He is our friend and brother. We know his commitment, his track record, and his capacity to lead our party to success. ”So now is the time for all of us to come together and march forward, as we did in 2015, to a convincing APC victory. ‘‘I look forward to working closely with APC Governors to support Sen. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and all our APC candidates to success in 2023. ‘‘While I wish our great party success in the 2023 elections, please accept the assurances of my consideration and personal regards.’’