*We will hunt down assailants, make them pay – Akeredolu *CAN describes Owo church killing as wicked, barbaric WorldStage Newsonline– There was an explosion on Sunday at the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street,  Owo with many people were killed and injured as a result of an  explosion which occurred at the church premises. The Commissioner of Police in Ondo State, Mr Oyeyemi Oyediran in a statement by the command’s spokesperson, Funmilayo Odunlami said  officers of  the Explosive Ordinance Device Unit ( anti bomb squad) had been deployed to the scene of  explosion in Owo Local Government Area of the state. The CP said  efforts were  being intensified to arrest those who perpetrated the evil. “The command is aware of the attack at Owo, we will give you the full details of the incident later. “We want to implore the people of the state to be calm as all security apparatus are  currently active to ensure peace in the area,” Oyediran said. AKEREDOLU Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has assured residents of the state that the government would hunt down assailants that attacked and killed worshippers of St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo on Sunday. A statement by Mr Richard Olatunde, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, on Sunday in Akure said, “We are deeply saddened by the unprovoked attack and killing of innocent people of Owo, worshiping at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, on Sunday. “The vile and satanic attack is a calculated assault on the peace-loving people of Owo Kingdom, who have enjoyed relative peace over the years. “It is a black Sunday in Owo. Our hearts are heavy. Our peace and tranquility have been attacked by the enemies of the people. This is a personal loss, an attack on our dear state. “I have spoken to the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Ondo, Most Reverend Jude Arogundade, who is presently on his way to Owo. “Similarly, I have had to cut short my party’s national assignment in Abuja and visit Owo immediately,” he stated. According to the governor, this is an unexpected development and I am shocked to say the least. “Nevertheless, We shall commit every available resource to hunt down these assailants and make them pay. “We shall never bow to the machinations of heartless elements in our resolves to rid our state of criminals,” he said. The governor condoled with the people of Owo, especially families of victims of the attack. “I commiserate with my people in Owo, particularly families of the those who lost their lives to this ugly and unfortunate attack. “I extend my condolences to Olowo of Owo, Oba Gbadegesin Ogunoye as well as the Catholic Church,” he stated. Akeredolu enjoined the people to be calm and be sensitive, asking them not to engage in any act that could complicate the crisis. “I urge our people to remain calm and vigilant. Do not take laws into your hands. ” I have spoken to the heads of the security agencies. I have equally been assured that security operatives would be deployed to monitor and restore normalcy to Owo kingdom,” Akeredolu said. BUHARI MOURNS President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the heinous killing of worshippers on Sunday at the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, Owo Kingdom, in Ondo State. The President, in a condolence message released by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, on Sunday in Abuja, said only wicked and devilish people could have conceived and carried out such dastardly act. According to him, eternal sorrow awaits them both on earth here, and ultimately in the hereafter. ”No matter what, this country shall never give in to evil and wicked people, and darkness will never overcome light. Nigeria will eventually win,” he said. Buhari mourned the dead, condoled with their families, the Catholic Church, and the Government of Ondo State. He charged emergency agencies to swing into action, and bring succor to the wounded. KILLING IS WICKED, BARBARIC The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has described the killing of worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State, on Sunday as barbaric and wicked. Rev. Anselm Ologunwa, the Chairman of CAN in the state, in a statement on Sunday in Akure, condemned the attack. “The killing of some innocent souls in the name of whichever guise is the highest criminality everybody should rise up and condemn in our society. “How can some people just wake up from no where and decide to kill their fellow men unjustly without any recourse to the judgement of God,” he said. Ologunwa called on the government to address the security challenges confronting the country. According to him, “no where is safe in Nigeria with the recent kidnapping of Prelate of the Methodist Church and two others on the road, the train attack and on the air and now is inside the church of God.” The CAN Chairman noted that the day was the feast of the Pentecost Sunday in the history of the Catholic Church, assuring  the people that the Holy Spirit of God would definitely fight for those that were killed in the incident. Ologunwa called on the state government and security agencies to as a matter of urgency go after the perpetrators of the henious act and bring them to justice. The chairman condoled with families of the victims, the Catholic Community and the entire state, and prayed God to give them the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. He assured that CAN would continue to promote religious harmony and equal opportunities for all in the state without discrimination. The CAN chairman admonished the people of the state to complement Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu’s efforts on security, charging them to be security conscious at all times. FAYEMI CONDEMNS KILLINGS Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti has condemned the killing  of worshippers at the St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, Owo, Ondo State on Sunday. Fayemi in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode in Ado-Ekiti,  described the attack during a Holy Mass on Pentecost Sunday as very barbaric and callous. According to him, there can never be any justification for the heinous behaviour of the assailants. The governor  also commiserated with  Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN)  and  people of Ondo  state on  the sad incident. He urged security agencies in the state to ensure that the perpetrators of the crime were apprehended and made to face the wrath of the law. Fayemi also tasked them to remain vigilant. “The perpetrators of this dastardly act should not go unpunished. We call on relevant security agencies in the state to spring into action and ensure that they are brought to book. “Our condolences to the government and good people of Ondo state as well as families that lost their loved ones in the carnage,” he said. In solidarity with the sister state, the governor, however, directed the Ekiti  Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr Banji Filani, to immediately send human and medical resources to Ondo state. PDP CONDEMNS ATTACK The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned the gruesome terrorist attack and killing of innocent worshippers during a church service at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State on Sunday. The party condemned the terrorism act in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Debo Ologunagba in Abuja on Sunday. Ologunagba said that the PDP was alarmed by reports of how the attackers invaded the church, opened fire on worshippers, freely used explosives within the premises, murdered compatriots in cold blood and left unchallenged. Ologunagba said it was disheartening and traumatic to witness gory pictures and videos of children and the elderly murdered in cold blood Sunday morning by terrorists. He urged the government to be up to the task of its primary purpose of providing security and welfare for its citizens. He advised President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately address the nation on measures to stop killing in the country. “The PDP deeply commiserates with the families of the victims of this senseless attack and other terrorist attacks in our country, the Catholic Church, the Government as well as the people of Ondo State. “PDP charge our security agencies to leave no stone unturned to apprehend the perpetrators,” Ologunagba said. OSINBAJO SADDENED Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has decried the killing of worshippers at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, Owo, Ondo State, on Sunday. The vice president in post on his twitter handle, expressed grief over the incident  and described it as a senseless massacre. He condoled with families who lost loved ones in the attack. “I am saddened by the senseless massacre of innocent people in Owo. “My deepest condolences go to the families whose hearts are broken and are grasping for answers. “We are united in grief and a resolve to defeat the cowards who unleash terror on defenseless people,” he said. YAHAYA BELLO CONDEMNS ATTACK Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi has condemned gruesome attack on some worshippers on Sunday at the St Francis Catholic Church, in Owo, Ondo State, which has left many dead and others injured. Bello condemned the attack in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Muhammed Onogwu on Sunday in Abuja, calling for urgent and effective efforts to nab perpetrators The governor, expressing his sadness over the incidence, called on security operatives to expedite actions that would nab the perpetrators. Bello also sent his deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost loved ones in the incident, particularly the Catholic family and the entire Christian fold stating. He added that only justice well served to those evil doers can succour the pain they felt. He also commiserated with the government and people of Ondo state while he called for calm amongst the people in a bid to allow security operatives to speed up delivering justice in adequate measure. Governor Bello noted that the time has come to make more effective local security architecture in enhancing intelligence gathering and providing safety measures in rural areas. TINUBU: PERPETRATED SHOULD BE APPREHENDED Today’s attack on worshippers at the St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State is reprehensible in every sense of the word. There is no place for such hatred and wanton taking of innocent lives in our nation. No one can discern the darkness in the mind of those that would kill people who were merely engaged in the harmless practice of their faith. The only thing that can be said for sure is that these perpetrators are evil and that they should be subjected to the full measure of the law and justice. This violent attack has shocked the conscience of the nation and shattered the peace of this ancient town. It has saddened our hearts beyond what words can say. However, those who did this have made a terrible mistake. They think they can break our collective spirit and our will to live in peace and with compassion to all regardless of faith. What they have done will not pull us apart. We must unite so that together we extinguish this evil from our nation. We owe it to ourselves and to those who lost their lives in this heinous attack. Violent extremism and insecurity want to bring us low. We must continue to do all that we can to beat the vile challenge so that Nigeria becomes its better self. The architects of violence shall only seal their own fate but not the fate of this nation or the peace-loving people who inhabit it. While this is political season, let us put aside partisan affiliation and politics for the moment. I ask all Nigerians to stand and commiserate with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), the families of the victims of the attack and indeed the people of Owo and Ondo State. I too mourn and extend condolences with the pastors and leaders of St. Francis Catholic Church. While urging the people of the state to remain calm, and peaceful, we must also urge the police and security agencies to do all that is within their mortal power to do to get to the bottom of this attack, apprehend the wicked perpetrators and bring them to justice. May God watch over this republic and the people of Nigeria such that such evil is quickly and forever extinguished from the land! SANWO-OLU COMMISERATES WITH AKEREDOLU, ONDO PEOPLE Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has commiserated with his Ondo State counterpart, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi (SAN) and the State Government, over the attack and killings of worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church at Owa-luwa Street, Owo in Ondo State by unknown gunmen on Sunday. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who described the attack as callous, inhuman and despicable act, also sympathised with the people of Ondo State, especially the residents of Owo, Governor Akeredolu’s hometown and members of the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa. Sanwo-Olu in a condolence message issued on Sunday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, condemned the attack by the gunmen, saying it is crime against humanity to open fire on worshippers on Sunday morning killing scores of people. The Governor, who also commiserated with the Catholic Church of Nigeria and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), expressed deep sorrow over the loss of lives in the ugly incident. He said: “On behalf of the government and people of Lagos State, I commiserate with Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Ondo State Government and the entire people of the State over the tragic loss in the state caused by the attack and killings of worshippers by the evil men this morning. “Attacking a congregation and shedding innocent blood during a divine service in the temple of God is condemnable as it is a crime against humanity. It is barbaric, callous and despicable crime for any man to attack and kill worshippers or any fellow man in a manner the yet-to-be-identified gunmen carried out the heinous crime in the Catholic church on this morning. “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims, families and the Christian community and the people of Owo as well as the entire people of Ondo State, who are affected by this unfortunate incident.”