WorldStage Newsonline–  Nigeria and Spain have canvassed a global action to avert looming food crisis especially in wheat production occasioned by the ongoing war in Ukraine. Mr Femi Adesina, Nigeria’s President’s spokesman, in a statement said President Muhammadu Buhari and His Royal Majesty, King Felipe VI of Spain made the call when the two leaders met at the Royal Palace in Madrid, Spain, on Wednesday. The Nigerian leader specifically stressed the need for world leaders to come together and strategise on ways to avert the looming food crisis around the world. Buhari was at the Royal Palace in continuation of his tree-day State Visit to Spain. He thanked the Spanish Monarch for the invitation and hospitality extended to him since his arrival and updated him on happenings in Nigeria especially as the country gears up for general elections. The two leaders urged world leaders to take concrete actions to avert the food crisis. The King said Nigeria was an important country and looked forward to an opportunity to visit the country especially against the background of stronger cooperation being forged by the two countries. In a separate meeting with President Pedro Sanchez, Buhari said his country looked forward to increasing bilateral relations between both nations. He commended his Spanish counterpart for his leadership qualities and contributions in the war against terror in Sub-Saharan Africa especially in Mali, looking forward to cooperation in the area. The statement said the two leaders discussed areas of cooperation on which Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) were signed. Sanchez emphasized that as a major partner of Spain in Africa, Nigeria was a country that his people really wanted to have a stronger partnership with going forward. He commended Buhari for his leadership roles in Africa especially in the area of strengthening of democratic ideals. Spain is currently the largest importer of Nigerian gas and the third largest importer of Nigerian crude, and with the visit, the two leaders hoped for bigger trade relations. At the end of the visit, nine Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding were signed, namely: Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in criminal Matters; Transfer of Sentenced Persons and Extradition. Others were; Economic and Commercial Cooperation; Tourism; Sports; Health; the Fight against COVID-19; and Science and Innovation.