WorldStage Newsonline– Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s convoy was not involved in an accident at the airport road, Abuja, on Monday  as was reported in some media and social media platforms. Osinbajo’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, who made clarifications, said the Vice President’s  security and medical teams stopped and  assisted an accident victim at the airport road. Similarly, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) said that Osinbajo, was not involved in an accident on Monday but helped to rescue an accident victim along Airport Road, Abuja. Akande said the team removed the victim from the crushed vehicle resulting from a somersault. Akande said the team transported the patient to Airforce Base Hospital. The presidential aide said the vice president was on his way to Owo, Ondo State, to convey the president’s condolences on the attack at  St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, Owo, on Sunday. ” It was a solo accident; the car somersaulted on the opposite lane and was impaled on a tree. “The vice president is now in Ondo State to deliver personally the president’s condolences and message regarding yesterday’s attack in Owo. “On his way to the airport this morning, the vice president came across a road traffic accident, stopped to lend assistance, and ensured victim was taken to the hospital with vice president’s convoy ambulance. “He then proceeded on his trip and has since arrived the site of Sunday’s attack in Owo,” he said. The Corps Public Education Officer, FRSC, Mr Bisi Kazeem also said that the vice-president and his security aides were joined by other Nigerians to pull the victim out of the scene of the accident. He said that the Corps Marshal, FRSC, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, commended the vice president for rescuing the victim, saying that it was a call to all that road safety was everybody’s business. Kazeem attributed the accident to speeding by the driver of the affected vehicle, adding that the lone victim was only injured. The FRSC official stated that the vice-president had directed that the victim be treated on his account. Kazeem said that the accident, which occurred at Zamani Junction, involved a Toyota Corolla with registration number GWT842AA. “One male was injured, but no one died. The victim has been taken to the Air Force Base Hospital, Airport Road, Abuja, for treatment by the vice-president convoy ambulance, as it happened in his presence.” Kazeem warned against speeding, urging road users to be calm and patient while driving.