* IGP orders deployment of specialised operatives WorldStage Newsonline– The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, the United Nations and European Union (EU) have joined the list of those that condemned the has condemned the gruesome massacre of worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa, Owo, Ondo State on Sunday. The Ooni of Ife in a statement by his Director of Media & Public Affairs, Otunba Moses Olafare, on Monday, in Ile-Ife warned that Yoruba people have the capacity to defend themselves even though they are peace loving. Ooni Ogunwusi who warned against plans by a group, bloodsucking enemies of God who had vowed to destabilise the Southwest region, decried the vulnerability of Nigerians, especially the poor who he said are often victims of violent attacks. “Killing many persons and injuring more others are described as a gruesome massacre, dastardly targeted at turning Yorubland to a war zone. “Yoruba people have the capacity to defend themselves even though they are peace loving. “We should all be reminded that 6th of June made it exactly one year, when an invading gang of killer herdsmen killed at least over 20 people in Igangan, Ibarapa North local government of Oyo State, on Saturday night. “They left several houses, the palace of the Asigangan and a popular petroleum station burnt in the attack when people were asleep. This happened exactly a year ago!” Ooni said. Oba Ogunwusi, who is the co-chairman of the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria (NCTRN), explained that there have been reports that some criminals are currently working to invade and to wreck havoc in Yorubaland like the one that just happened in Owo. “When calamities like this befall us without a single trace, the interpretation is that the intelligence unit of our country’s security architecture is probably faulty or completely missing. “However, we the descendants of Oduduwa cannot be overrun in our own home as we are prepared and ready to defend ourselves against external invaders. “Rather than discouraging us, this will rather strengthen us especially in our resolve to deploy manpower, resources and technology towards the protection of lives and properties. “The six governors across the south west region and their brothers nationwide as well as the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government, should live up to their oaths of securing Nigerians and ensuring safety for the citizenry,” the Ooni said. He, however commiserated with the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye III, the entire Owo kingdom, Gov Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, the people of Owo, the Priest and parishioners of St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa, Owo, families of all the victims, and the entire people of Ondo State over the tragic and senseless killings. UN URGES AUTHORITIES TO BRING PERPETRATORS TO JUSTICE UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, has condemned the heinous attack on worshippers at a Catholic Church in Nigeria, at Owo, Ondo State, urging the Nigerian Government to fish out the perpetrators. Guterres, in a statement by his spokesman, Stéphane Dujarric, on Monday, urged the Nigerian authorities to spare no effort in bringing the perpetrators to justice. According to him, the secretary-general condemns in the strongest terms the heinous attack in St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State. The attack, which happened on Sunday, resulted in the death and injuries of scores of civilians as people gathered for the Pentecost mass in the parish. The spokesman said the secretary-general emphasised that attacks on places of worship are abhorrent. Guterres extends his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and wishes a speedy recovery to the injured. He also expresses his sympathies to, and solidarity with, the Government and people of Nigeria. Earlier at a news conference in New York, Dujarric said the UN condemned Sunday’s horrific attack on worshippers. He told journalists in New York that the UN Resident Coordinator in the country, Matthias Schmale, strongly condemned the attack. “I can tell you that the Resident Coordinator for Nigeria said that the UN in Nigeria strongly condemns the brutal attack on worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church. “The team sends its deepest condolences to families and friends mourning the victims of this horrific crime,’’ he said. According to him, Schmale appealled for calm, saying perpetrators should be brought to justice. EU CONDEMNS KILLING The European Union (EU) has condemned Sunday’s armed attack on worshippers at a Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State, in which scores of defenceless Christian faithful were killed. The EU’s High Representative, Josep Borrell, who said this in a statement in Abuja, said that the Union was shocked by the killings. “The unacceptable attacks by non-state armed groups are becoming recurrent in various parts of Nigeria and the senseless violence has now spread to the hitherto peaceful state of Ondo. “The EU stands in solidarity with the people of Ondo State, and in particular the families who have lost their loved ones. Those responsible for the despicable act should be speedily brought to justice,” he said. According to him, the EU remains committed to working with the Nigerian authorities to stop this spiral of violence, find a lasting solution. ” We will continue to support Nigeria in its efforts in building sustainable peace, deepening democracy and ensuring protection of fundamental human rights of all its people. “Including the right of worship and freedom of religion or belief,” he stated. IGP ORDERS DEPLOYMENT OF SPECIALISED OPERATIVES Meanwhile, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr Usman Baba, has ordered  the deployment of specialised operatives to unravel the perpetrators of Sunday’s attack on St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State. The Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Monday in Abuja that the specialised operatives would be drawn from the Police Explosive Ordnance Devices-Chemical Biological Radiological and Nuclear Explosives (EOD-CBRNE) and other tactical units from the Force Headquarters. Adejobi said the deployment is to ensure a comprehensive investigation and immediate interception of the perpetrators of the attack. He said the IGP had condemned the attack that led to the brutal murder of innocent Nigerians in their place of worship. The police spokesman said preliminary investigations had revealed that the gunmen invaded the church with arms and materials suspected to be explosives. According to him, police investigators who were part of the first responders deployed to the scene have recovered pellets of expended AK-47 ammunition. He said operatives from the EOD-CBRNE unit had confirmed the use of explosives as fragments of the IEDs used were found. Adejobi said three unexploded IEDs were recovered after thorough sweeping of the scene of the incident. The police spokesman said further investigations has revealed that some of the gunmen disguised as members of the congregation. He said others who positioned themselves around the church premises from different directions, fired into the church during the attack. According to him, the assailants fled the scene using a Nissan Sunny car, with Reg No. AKR 895 AG, which was snatched from the owner and escaped through Owo/Ute road. He said the vehicle has been recovered, adding that the owner of the vehicle is currently assisting the Police in their investigations. Adejobi said the IGP had condoled with the Ondo State Government, family members, relatives and friends of the victims who lost their lives in the attack. He pledged that the heartless killers of the harmless victims, particularly innocent children, would be made to face the full wrath of the law.