WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria is collaborating with the European Union (EU) for effective clean-up of Jabi Lake, to ensure a healthy and safe environment in the FCT. The Minister of Environment, Alhaji Mohammed Abdullahi who supervised the walk and exercise, in collaboration with some EU officials on Saturday in Abuja said that the exercise was to commemorate World Environment Day (WED), with a theme: “#OnlyOneEarth’ Together We can Protect it.’’ WED led by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has been held annually on June 5 since 1973. The WED is the largest global platform for environmental public outreach and is celebrated by millions of people across the world; this year WED will be hosted by Sweden. The minister was represented by Director, Planning, Research and Statistics of the ministry, Mr Stanley Jonah. Abdullahi said that the aim of the exercise was to create some level of awareness by educating people on the dangers of not keeping the environment clean. According to him, “we also want to educate people on the dangers of polluting our environment and how such can lead to climate change, biodiversity and other negative effects”. “The theme is simple, apart from this one earth, I don’t think we have another, so if we don’t have another earth elsewhere, then we should ensure that this planet is protected. “So that we can have a place where we can co-exist, a place that is habitable for us. “Whatever thing that can be humanly done through policies and other possible measures to ensure that this earth is habitable without delay, such effort should be put in place. “Our environment 50 years ago is still ravaging, Nigerians are not exclusive in this act, the environmental challenges are obvious in market places, schools, offices, sea everywhere,’’ he said. The minister thanked the EU officials and other developed countries for their collaboration and immense support to ensure that the environment was healthy and safe. The EU Ambassador to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Amb. Samuela Isopi, said the collaboration with the Federal Government was part of an effort to commemorate World Environment Day (WED). “As you may know, the WED will be celebrated tomorrow all over the world, yet we decided to start earlier with this symbolic walk toward one of the most popular places in the FCT. “In this recreational park, I know that a lot of sports are practised everyday in this place and even some come here before heading to work. “Overall, this place is a full ecosystem likewise, every ecosystem needs to be preserved. It is obvious that the more crowded it will get, the more effort needs to be done to address it. “Here it is our air, our water and our plant life that is put in danger,’’ she said. Isopi called on FCT residents to ensure that the Lake was kept clean and healthy, for its sustainability and safety of people. She expressed worries over indiscriminate waste, especially plastic, adding that such would be a major threat, if not properly managed. “For instance, I know that fishermen are exploiting the lake for their subsistence. “We can therefore support them by ensuring that we desist from such attitudes that can create an unhealthy environment. “Today the campaign aims at cleaning this part of the lake, but I know that many Nigerians are actively working against indiscriminate dumping of waste. “So, let us think together on how we can make it work for a better tomorrow.”