WorldStage Newsonline– The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), have expressed readiness to foster relationship in combating money laundering and drug-related crimes. This was revealed during a courtesy visit by the Kwara Commander of the NDLEA, Ibrahim Saidu, to the Ilorin Zonal Command of the EFCC on Tuesday in Ilorin. Saidu explained that the purpose of the visit was to strengthen ties with the EFCC in order to help the two agencies deliver on their mandates. “We have a lot to do together, especially as the two agencies are mutually engaged in the business of securing Nigeria against fraud. “I have told my officers not to be after drug-related offences only, but also be watchful and report evidence of money laundering to the EFCC,” he said. The Commander disclosed that some of the NDLEA officers were trained at the EFCC Academy, Karu, Abuja recently. He stressed that the training was part of the synergy that should exist between the two agencies. Saidu revealed that the EFCC is currently building the capacity of NDLEA officers on money laundering, while boosting their competence in tackling drug-related offences. The NDLEA boss seized the opportunity to inform EFCC of the recently-launched War Against Drug Abuse (WADA) by President Muhammadu Buhari and called for support of the Commission in intensifying the campaign. He pledged his agency’s support for EFCC, adding that his officers are prepared to offer training assistance to the Commission’s staff in Ilorin, on the dangers of drug abuse and peddling. Responding, Michael Nzekwe, EFCC Zonal Commander, noted that the two Agencies have more areas of convergence in their respective statutory mandates, on areas of terrorism, financing and money laundering. Nzekwe identified drug peddling as the main source of terrorism financing, which was among the core areas of focus for EFCC. The Zonal Commander disclosed that synergy and collaboration are part of the cardinal principles of the Commission in its fight against economic and financial crimes. He said that Ilorin Command would align with the principle of collaboration and would ensure that corruption is reduced to the barest minimum in the three States under its control. Nzekwe thanked the NDLEA Commander and his team for the visit and appreciated his offer to sensitize his men on drug abuse and its negative consequences. “The Abdulrasheed Bawa-led management in the EFCC frowns at corruption, indiscipline and drug abuse. “As brothers in the service of our Fatherland, we need to work together to ensure a well-secured Nigeria, because without Nigeria there will neither be EFCC nor NDLEA. “We need to be in contact from time to time to share ideas on how we can reduce drug abuse and other forms of criminalities to the barest minimum,” the Zonal Commander said.