WorldStage Newsonline– Congratulatory messages have been pouring in from different quarters for Sen. Bola Tinubu over his emergence as the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the just concluded national convention. Tinubu polled 1,271 votes while his closet co-contestant, Rotimi Amaechi, got 316 votes. Gov Fayemi Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti said the emergence of the former Lagos State Governor is a collective wish of party members. Fayemi in a statement signed by Mr Yinka Oyebode,his Chief Press Secretary, on Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti said Tinubu had proven his dedication and competence to lead Nigeria at a very  important time in the country’s history. Fayemi ,who stepped down  for Tinubu at the just-concluded APC Special Convention in Abuja, described the APC flagbearer as a long distance runner with the capacity to lead the country to greater heights . “It is a great moment for our party. I congratulate Asiwaju Tinubu for the well- deserved victory and the leadership of the party as well as the convention committee members for a great job. “Collectively, we shall move from this convention venue with greater determination to strengthen the party and work assiduously for the success of the party in the 2023 elections,” he said. Fayemi congratulated Tinubu,a  former governor of Lagos State,on his victory at the convention and emergence as APC presidential flag bearer for the 2023 election. He congratulated the party leadership and the convention planning committee for the successful conduct of the special convention and presidential primary. Fayemi also used the opportunity to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari for superintending over a free, fair, and credible process as national leader of the party. WAMAKKO Sen. Aliyu Wamakko ( APC-Sokoto North), has congratulated Sen. Bola Tinubu, for clinching the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for the 2023 general elections. This is contained in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Malam Hassan Sanyinnawal on Wednesday in Abuja. Wamakko described Tinubu’s  victory  as, ”a  well-deserved one, considering Tinubu’s years of working for the entrenchment and strengthening of democracy in Nigeria. ”With Tinubu’s victory, APC stands a good chance of retaining power in 2023, considering his years of contributions  to Nigeria’s  development.” Wamakko, who is also the Chairman of Northern Senators’ Forum, said his emergence remained  a victory for democracy and Nigerians as a whole. He explained that Tinubu stood his ground that the APC must organise a free, fair and transparent presidential primary, if it wanted to remain the party to beat. This, he said, resulted in making  the party come out, peaceful and victorious in the end. The former governor of Sokoto state commended  Tinubu’s ”doggedness, determination, resilience and tenacity in pursuing his ambition. ”This, he has been doing without indulging in any activity that will affect other aspirants and the image of the party. “This is a victory for APC, a victory for its members and indeed a victory for Nigeria and its democracy,” Wamakko said. He  urged other aspirants at the just concluded primaries to join hands and support the party’s presidential candidate to achieve success in the forthcoming  2023 general elections. Wamakko also lauded President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the party for providing the enabling level-playing  ground for all the aspirants to present themselves to the party’s delegates for the contest. AKEREDOLU Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has  congratulated former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu on his emergence as the 2023 Presidential Candidate of the  All  Progressives Congress (APC). Akeredolu made this known in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Richard Olatunde on Wednesday in Akure. The governor, who hailed the outcome of the special convention for presidential primary of the party,  said  the party  displayed total commitment to the ethos of democracy and embraced the path of fairness and equity. According to him, the contest is a brotherly scramble. The aspirants, and leaders of our great party must now leverage on our political strength to build the party and reposition it for even greater victory. “We must identify and underscore our challenges for the greater good of the people. The time for strife  is beneath us. As the dust settles, we must form a common front and understand that victory at the general election is our collective target. “It is time to justify our zeal and passion for the party. The instruments of the party must be fully deployed for the rescue mission of the nation. Let us expend our strength and reach to replete the party with brighter prospects. Ours is to plough not to plunder. “Our struggle for the service of the people must reflect in our support and incurable commitment to unity geared toward the good of the people and the country at large. “I congratulate our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for clinching the ticket of our party. As a leader of the party, it is time to galvanise supports and calm frayed nerves. The reconciliation process must start immediately. The time has come to be united for victory. “We have a big task ahead. Let us put the past behind us for the greater objective to oil the wheel of peace, progress and unity in our party. We must all win together. “I commend President Muhammadu Buhari (GCFR), the patriotic 13 Governors from the Northern Region (P13), our great brothers who stepped down for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.” The governor also commended   members of the National Working Committee of the APC who  worked tirelessly to put the  party on the path of democratic values. “May Fair winds continue to push our sail forward,” he said. STUDENTS’ GROUP The Progressive Students Movement (PSM), a Pan African students’ movement, has congratulated Sen. Bola Tinubu, on his emergence as the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential flag bearer for the 2023 general elections. The President of PSM, Mr Bestman Okereafor, issued the congratulatory message in a statement in Enugu on Wednesday. Okereafor called on Tinubu to prepare seriously for the challenges in the build-up to the general elections. He urged the APC presidential candidate to consider prioritising the education sector, security, agriculture and massive job opportunities for Nigerian youths. “The attention of PSM has been drawn to the outcome of the ruling APC presidential primary which has produced Sen. Bola Tinubu as the party’s presidential flag bearer for the 2023 elections. “PSM congratulates the APC for the successful conduct of the party primaries in a free and fair contest and specifically deeming it fit for the party to zone its presidential ticket to the South in the spirit of fairness. “We congratulate the party flag bearer, Sen. Tinubu, for his victory, while charging him to remain focused as greater challenges are ahead. “As a national leader of track record of human empowerment, we urge him to be magnanimous enough by harmonising all aspirants that participated in the contest for resounding success in the larger contest in 2023,” Okereafor said. In another development, PSM condemn the ugly incident that occurred at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State on June 5. “We totally condemn the attack and condole with the Ondo State Government and the families of the victims. “PSM is calling on security agents to track the perpetrators with the sole aim of bringing them to justice as a matter of urgency, ” he said. GBAJABIAMILA Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila has congratulated Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for clinching the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for 2023 general elections. The speaker, in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja, said he was elated that his political mentor won the APC ticket. He described the victory as “a well-deserved one” considering Tinubu’s years of working for the entrenchment and strengthening of democracy in Nigeria. The speaker said with Tinubu’s victory, APC stood a good chance of retaining power in 2023, noting that Nigerians across the board recognised his contributions to the nation’s development. Gbajabiamila, who described Tinubu as a dogged fighter who stood his ground to compete in the presidential primary in a democratic manner, said the presidential candidate remains a hero. “I congratulate my mentor for this victory. This is a victory for democracy and Nigerians as a whole. With the manner he went about his campaigns, Asiwaju has proved to be a hero of our democracy. “From day one, he stood his ground that the APC must organise a free, fair and transparent presidential primary if it wanted to remain the party to beat,” he said. “He advocated that and remained steadfast. This will make the party come out peaceful and victorious in the end. “I commend Asiwaju’s doggedness, determination, resilience and tenacity in pursuing his ambition without indulging in any activity that would affect other aspirants and the image of the party. “This is a victory for APC, a victory for its members and indeed a victory for Nigeria and its democracy,” Gbajabiamila said. Gbajabiamila called on Tinubu to be magnanimous in victory, as that has been his attitude, and carry other aspirants along for the party’s victory at the general elections. He equally urged other aspirants at the just concluded primary to join hands and support the party’s presidential candidate. He commended the aspirants for their conduct before, during and after the APC presidential primary. Gbajabiamila also lauded President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the party for providing the enabling level ground for all aspirants to present themselves to the party’s delegates for the contest APC CHIEFTAIN A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress  (APC) in Ondo State, Princess Omowumi Olatunji, has described Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu’s victory in the just-concluded presidential primary of the party as an attestation of years of his service to humanity. This is contained in a congratulatory message by Olatunji-Ohwovoriole on Wednesday in Akure. Olatunji-Ohwovoriole, who congratulated Tinubu for the outstanding victory, explained that Tinubu’s emergence was well deserved, saying that the victory had left no one in doubt of Tinubu’s passion to better the lives of others. She stated that an opportunity to serve in the highest office in the country would no doubt afford him the needed opportunity to touch millions of lives. The Akure princess also lauded members of the party most especially governors and leaders who stepped down their interest toward making the emergence of Tinubu possible, saying the  sacrifice was in the best interest of all Nigerians. She also appealed Nigerians to massively vote for Tinubu in the 2023 general election, saying she had no doubt that Nigeria would witness tremendous development under his watch if voted to become the nation’s president. OMO-AGEGE Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, has congratulated Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the newly-elected presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Omo-Agege’s congratulatory message is contained in a statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday by Mr Ima Niboro, Director, Communications and Media Strategy, Delta APC Gubernatorial Campaign Organisation. Omo-Agege, the standard bearer of APC in the 2023 governorship election in Delta, expressed optimism that Tinubu would emerge victorious at the 2023 presidential election. He lauded President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Working Committee of the APC for giving all aspirants a level playing field. He commended the 2022 APC Special Convention Committee for successfully conducting the primary election. Omo-Agege also showered glowing tributes on APC governors in the north of Nigeria for setting the pace by zoning the presidency to the South. He called on Tinubu to be magnanimous in victory and stressed the need for all presidential aspirants to join hands with the APC’s presidential candidate and the party in ensuring victory. “Not everyone gave APC a chance to conduct a free, fair and credible presidential primary election. With the undercurrents in the build-up, some had predicted that our great party would go into extinction after this convention. “With the transparent process that saw the emergence of Asiwaju Tinubu as our party’s standard bearer, I am confident more than ever before that this is the beginning of even greater tidings for our party. “We proved our critics wrong. We have shown that with unity of purpose, the sky is our starting point,’’ he said. Omo-Agege also called on Nigerians to support Tinubu and other APC candidates at all levels at the 2023 general elections. C/RIVER DEPUTY SPEAKER The Deputy Speaker of Cross River House of Assembly, Mr Joseph Bassey, has congratulated Sen. Bola Tinubu for emerging as the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress primary election. Basseysaid that the former Lagos State governor had the capacity, network and political structures to win in 2023. According to him, the widespread network and contact of Tinubu would guarantee him victory in the presidential polls against former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The Deputy Speaker, who lauded the APC leadership for allowing a transparent primary process that elected a flag bearer without consensus, said that the party had promoted internally democracy. “I want to congratulate Tinubu for a transparent and clear victory. A lot of people felt the party was going to have a consensus candidate; but it turned out to be that all aspirants were given a fair ground. “The primary election victory will translate into a general victory during the presidential polls. Tinubu is going to contest against a strong politician like Atiku Abubakar. “But, I can assure you that Tinubu has the capacity, contact, network and political grassroots structures across the country to defeat Atiku Abubakar in 2023. “We from the Southern part of the country are happy, because even the Northern governors have also advocated that power should move to the South in 2023. “Tinubu is now the party’s flag bearer and hopefully, we will all come out and work for him and for the victory of the party in 2023,” he assured. Bassey, who is also the APC candidate for Akpabuyo/Bakassi/Calabar South Federal Constituency in the 2023 elections, also congratulated Gov. Ben Ayade of Cross River for scoring 37 votes during the presidential primary. GOV INUWA YAHAYA Gov. Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State, on Wednesday, described the victory of Bola Tinubu in the just concluded APC presidential primary as an expression of cohesion and national unity. Yahaya in a congratulatory message by Ismail Misili, Director-General, Press Affairs,  Government House, said Tinubu’s emergence as the party’s flagbearer was a good omen to the country. “The overwhelming victory of Tinubu at the just-concluded APC presidential primary is a good omen and an expression of national unity of purpose. “The victory is a manifestation of his years of personal commitment, sacrifice, tenancy, political experience and service to the nation. “As an enigmatic leader and strong pillar with immense influence, Tinubu, the APC flagbearer has the capacity to win the general election in 2023 with resounding victory,” he said. The governor expressed optimism that when eventually elected as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Tinubu would bring to bear his wealth of experience to build on the successes of the Buhari-led administration in all facets of human endeavour. He said Tinubu has proven ability and capability to lead the nation, having governed Lagos State with a magic wand. Yahaya applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for providing leadership and guidance that led to the enthronement of a transparent internal democratic process which resulted in the successful conduct of the primary. He lauded the leadership of the party for the conduct of free, fair, peaceful and transparent presidential primary election. Yahaya also commended his colleagues for supporting power shift to the south in the spirit of equity, fairness and bond of brotherhood,  adding that the gesture would further strengthen the party and engender cohesion in the country. According to him, members of the party have shown candour and character in the quality of leadership, maturity and commitment displayed by both delegates and aspirants throughout the process. Obasa The Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr  Mudashiru Obasa has congratulated Sen. Bola Tinubu for clinching the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential ticket for the 2023 general elections. Obasa made this known in his congratulatory message in Lagos on Wednesday. Obasa, while describing Tinubu’s emergence as a well-deserved victory, noted that the former governor of Lagos state won the party’s presidential primary election on a landslide. The speaker commended the party’s organising committee for organising a free and fair primary, also hailed other aspirants in the exercise “for putting up a good fight”. “I also specially commend all those who took the last-minute decision to relinquish their aspiration in support of Tinubu, the father of modern Lagos. “The outcome of this primary election is the result of hard work and the support of critical stakeholders across the length and breadth of this country who love Tinubu. “It is interesting and exciting how the exercise, which held under a peaceful atmosphere, ended. “This victory is not for Asiwaju alone. It is for our great party. It is for well-meaning Nigerians who aspire for a greater country,” he said. The speaker also urged for greater support for the APC presidential candidate as the party approached  the next stage of electioneering ahead of 2023. GANDUJE Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has said the victory of Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the just-concluded APC presidential primary showed his acceptability in the north as a bridge builder. Ganduje made the remarks in his congratulatory message to Tinubu through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Abba Anwar, on Wednesday in Kano. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s landslide victory in the just-concluded presidential primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) shows his high degree of acceptability in the north, as a bridge builder,” he said. He said the entire process was conducted peacefully and thanked all those who participated in it for promoting good democratic process. Ganduje expressed optimism that the election would make APC stronger as the 2023 general elections draw nearer. He praised northern governors for their unanimous decision to shift power to the south and also President Muhammadu Buhari for accepting their proposal. “This patriotic decision will further cement all parts of the country. “President Buhari’s role in making sure that democratic principles are safeguarded in the process is highly commendable and exemplary,” he said. Ganduje called on all aspirants that could not make it at the primary election to support the winner in the interest of the party and nation in general. EX-PARTY SPOKESMAN Former spokesman for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr Seye Oladejo, says Sen. Bola Tinubu’s consistency and large-heartedness has won him the APC presidential ticket. Oladejo, former Commissioner for Special Duties in Lagos State, made the remark in Lagos while reacting to Tinubu’s victory at the APC presidential primary in Abuja on Wednesday. He said: “This is a victory well-deserved and most expected. It implies that diligence, consistency and large-heartedness do get rewarded in politics. “When Asiwaju declared his intention to vie for the APC presidential ticket and some of us threw our hats in the ring to supporting him, we were called names. “Today people like us feel justified that at last, Nigeria is ready for a leadership that is informed, prepared and ready to take our country to earn a well-deserved place in the committee of nations. “What Asiwaju’s candidacy represents is a breath of fresh air for the Nigerian nation. “He has come to give us the real hope for development, security, confidence as Nigerians.” The former Secretary and ex-Chairman of Mushin Local Government congratulated Tinubu, his supporters and those who initially opposed his aspirations. The APC chieftain added that Tinubu had given a good fight, describing his doggedness as “the spirit of democracy.” “The truth of the matter is that Asiwaju is a unifier; he has a large heart, and he will be ready to rally everybody within and outside the party for him to win the election in 2023,” Oladejo added. The main opposition, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) had on May 29 elected former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as its presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections. GOV YAHAYA BELLO Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi has congratulated former Lagos State governor, Sen. Bola Tinubu on his emergence as the 2023 Presidential flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Bello congratulated Tinubu in a statement signed by Dr Yemi Kolapo, Director, Media and Publicity of the Yahaya Bello Campaign Organisation on Wednesday in Abuja Bello, who was one of the contestants, described the election as peaceful and accepted the outcome of the primaries. He pledged to  give the needed support to ensure victory of the flag-bearer and the ruling party in the 2023 presidential election.