The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has tasked the state residents to adopt Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) as a cleaner, safer and alternative cooking energy source. Dr Chinyere Almona, Director-General, LCCI, gave the advice at the LCCI sensitisation exercise held at the Agbado Oke Odo on Friday in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Agbado Oke Odo community is the fourth to benefit from the LCCI Liquefied Petroleum Group (LPG) phase two sensitisation exercise tagged #EkoforgasforEko. The initiative which is a collaborative effort between the LCCI LPG group and Community Development Committee (CDC) started on May 27, to run for five Fridays across Ikorodu, Ketu, Igando, Agbado and Lagos central. According to Almona, intense usage of biomass and dirty fuels could lead to harmful and destructive physical and environmental outcomes. She said that burning biomass and kerosene released greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2) which cause climate change (also called global warming). “These existential problems to the entire human race are the rationale for adoption of cleaner energy like LPG. “The underlying benefits of LPG as cleaner fuel cannot be overemphasised. “It has a higher heating value, which implies cooking at a relatively lower price and does not contain sulphur, so it burns a lot cleaner making it more reliable than other energy options. “This sensitisation exercise is LCCI’s contribution to the transition process critical to eliminating attitudinal barriers and social misgivings about gas usage,” she said. Meanwhile, three beneficiaries (Mrs Kemi Isekuigbe, Mrs Patience Okpor and Mrs Aminat Idris) of industrial burners and 12kg gas cylinders emerged at the sensitisation exercise. Mr Olabowale Kasunmu, CDC Chairman, Agbado Oke-Odo, tasked the beneficiaries on the judicious use of the items to encourage the continuous interests of the benefactors in projects duch as the exercise. Kasunmu called for more initiatives as this to engage those resident in rural communities for further enlightenment on the benefits of LPG. Prince Abiodun Kosoko, Baba Oja General, Agbado Oke-Odo, said the initiative was a means of creating more employment for the beneficiaries as it provides a boost to their businesses. “This initiative would have a ripple effect on the beneficiaries’ businesses as it would expand cooking to a larger scale and they would need more persons to meet up thereby creating more jobs,” he said. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Patience Okpor, expressing delight at the development, pledged her support to further drive the benefits of using gas to her neighbours both at home and at the market.