Gov. Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun, says he is sure of winning the governorship election, as he cast his vote at Unit 2, Ward 1, LA Primary School, Popo, Iragbiji in Boripe Local Government area. Oyetola, who arrived at the polling unit in company of his wife, Kafayat, cast his vote at exactly 10.55 a.m, three minutes after his wife voted. Speaking with journalists after exercising his franchise, Oyetola said he was happy with the turn out of voters, especially at his polling unit. Oyetola said the election process was transparent, adding that this encouraged voters to come out en-masse to vote. The governor said he was happy seeing large turn out of voters, adding that by God’s grace, he would be victorious at the end of the day’s voting. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that accreditation and voting at the governor’s polling unit started at exactly 8:30 a.m with the INEC Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) working perfectly well. There was also large turn out of voters at the polling unit, which had 1,457 registered voters. DEPUTY GOVERNOR Osun deputy governor, Benedict Alabi, says has  he has no fear that the All Progressives Congress (APC), will win Saturday’s governorship election in the state. Alabi made the remarks shortly after cast his vote at  ward 6 unit 7, Baptist Day School, Ikire, Irewole Local Government Area of the state. The deputy governor, who adjudged the process as peaceful and orderly, with impressive turnout, also commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the timely arrival of election materials. He also commended the security agencies for ensuring orderliness and peaceful atmosphere of the conduct of the election. ” This is a wonderful experience. The atmosphere is calm and rancour free. ” People are orderly and also have confidence to come out in their large number to vote. ” I have no doubt that we are going to win convincingly considering what we have achieved in the state in last three and half years. ” I believe the electorate will do the needful by voting for us,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the atmosphere was general peaceful with large voter turnout.