WorldStage Newsonline– Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday unveiled Sen. Kashim Shettima, as his running mate for the 2023 general election. Speaking at the ceremony in Abuja, Tinubu said that he believed strongly in the qualities of Shettima as his running mate for the 2023 poll. “I remain steadfast in my belief in the selection of Shettima. “I am unwavering in my belief that he is the very best person to run for office and to, hopefully, govern by my side, “he said. Tinubu lauded President Muhammadu Buhari and members of APC National Working Committee (NWC), for their numerous support and encouragement since he became the party’s presidential candidate. “For our party and nation, we hold the chance to move the nation and our collective cause forward as never before. “To do this, we must be wise of thought and courageous of action,’’ Tinubu also a former two-term governor of Lagos State said. He said that the APC must work to win the 2023 election so that it could enhance the living conditions of Nigerians by creating more jobs, better education, food, medicine etc to better the lots of the people. “I stand ready to make this journey and, today, I am delighted to stand shoulder to shoulder with my good friend, brother and running mate; Sen. Kashim Shettima. “Much has been said and written about my decision to select Shettima to partner me on this journey. “As a committed democrat and progressive, I have read and listened to all that has been written and said. It has been an emotional and moving period. “I understand the strength of feeling that has been displayed by some within our party and I cherish and respect the views of all, ”Tinubu said. He re-emphasised his believed in the APC project and promised not to let the people down. “I believe that we must be victorious in order to achieve the greatness of which this country is capable. “All my life, my decisions regarding the team around and supporting me have always been guided by the principles of competence, innovation, compassion, integrity, fairness, and adherence to excellence. “In politics, these principles are sacrosanct, without them there can be neither victory nor good governance. I seek both, I applied them as Governor of Lagos State. I apply them again now. “This chapter in our nation’s history demands a bold yet pragmatic approach, in selecting Shettima, I have committed myself to this path,’’ Tinubu said. He said that choosing Shettima was a difficult decision saying however, that he believed it was the best choice. “This is where politics must end and leadership must begin,” he said. Tinubu said that true leadership was not grounded in religion, populism or sentiment. “To forge ahead as a nation toward development and prosperity, we must break free of old binds,” he said. “Shettima’s career in politics and beyond shows that he is eminently qualified not only to deliver that all important electoral victory, but, also, steps into the shoes of the Vice-President. “As a man with the talent, maturity, strength of character, and patriotism he has my implicit confidence and faith,’’ he said. Speaking at the event, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, the National Chairman, APC said Tinubu had chosen to walk along the path of great Nigerians like late MKO Abiola in picking Sen. Kashim Shettima, as his running mate for the 2023 poll. He said, “It is now time for the APC to step out to the public space with one of its best. “Since the presidential candidate of our party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, announced the choice of his running mate on July 11, the nation is yet to know who he is, we welcome this opportunity to unveil him. “As the national chairman of our party, it is both my honour and duty to unveil this distinguished son of our country and formally present him to this august body and through it, the Nigerian public.” Adamu said that the late MKO Abiola in 1993 presidential election,  chosed a Kanuri man, Alhaji Babagana Kingibe from the North-East as his running mate. “We are beginning to suspect there must be some synergy between the Yoruba people and the Kanuri people. “Maybe there is a mutual attraction between them that the rest of us do not know, never mind, we will put the searchlight on them,” he said. According to him, the 1993 MKO Abiola-Kingibe presidential ticket and the current Tinubu-Shettima ticket, bridged one of our fault lines in the management of our diversities. Adamu said that Nigerians overwhelmingly voted for that ticket because they trusted Abiola, a man who opened his arms to every tribe and religion in the country to run an inclusive government. He said that Tinubu was a man who has also thrown his arms around every tribe in the country and has offered his shoulders for those in pains to lean on. “He has used his wealth to bring succour to the needy, he can be trusted to run an inclusive government in which character, competence and vision matter to his administration. “Our party has produced a candidate who is accepted by all zones in our country, he enjoys the trust of every strata in our national socio-economic structure. “We are confident that Nigerians will entrust him with the leadership of our country in 2023. We offer our gratitude to Nigerians for the continued trust they repose on the APC. “In our political tradition, the choice of a running mate is the exclusive right of the presidential candidate,” Adamu said. He said that the party’s presidential candidate exercised that right with due consultations with stakeholders. Adamu said that Tinubu being an astute politician, couldn’t have made the choice of a running mate without widely consulting the party’s stakeholders, including President Muhammadu Buhari. The national chairman said that having made his choice, the party wholly and unconditionally accepted Tinubu’s choice and have a duty to work for their victory in the 2023 poll. “At this time in our national development, and given the myriads of our national challenges, we should look for men and women of character, competence and demonstrable evidence of their performance in public or private offices. “We believe these informed Tinubu’s decision to select Shettima because he fits the bill. “Shettima brings to the joint ticket impressive antecedents as a political leader and administrator, Tinubu could not have made a better choice of a running mate. “He chose a man he believes can partner with him to undertake the urgent task of our economic recovery as well as social and political development in peace and security,” he said. Adamu said that as a former two-term governor of Borno, Shettima did what one might rightly describe as titanic things and demonstrated his capacity as a focused leader when the state was virtually under siege by the Boko Haram terrorists. He said that when the bombs were exploding and the bullets were flying, Shettima bravely continued to provide for his people, building new primary and post-primary schools, health facilities and housing projects. Adamu said that Shettima never abandoned his people, but continued to serve them under virtually impossible conditions. “Shettima is not a stranger to the security challenges confronting our dear country going by his personal and first hand experiences with Boko Haram while they were at the peak of their operations in Borno. “He has earned his right to a higher political office, he must now move up the ladder of our national service as the next Vice-Presidential of Nigeria. “The unveiling of the Vice-Presidential candidate today sends out a strong signal to the country that our great party is ready and united around the common cause of coasting home with victory at every level in 2023. “But we must not be unmindful of the hurdles ahead, it is time to purge ourselves of the bitterness arising from our individual losses in the party primaries,” he said. Adamu added:It 8s time to submit ourselves to the will of God and the party and do nothing to sabotage its well-laid plans for victory. “The other political parties want what we want, and that is, to win and form the next government. “If by any acts of omission or commission we give in to bitterness and pettiness or fail to see the larger picture or take any of the political parties for granted. “We will constitute an obstacle to the victory of our party.”