United Towns Agency (UTA), a UN agency on Tuesday inaugurated an action plan to embark on humanitarian projects and defend the political rights of the Nigerian electorate in the 2023 general election. The News Agency Of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the plan was launched by President of UTA, Princess Abigail Amalaha at an inaugural news conference in Abuja. NAN also reports that the UTA is a United Nations accredited non-governmental organisation with consultative status of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) operating in 110 countries. According to Amalaha, it is very important to launch an immediate plan to embark on humanitarian activities in vulnerable rural communities of FCT. “We are focus on scaling up access of FCT rural communities to safe drinking water, qualitative Healthcare and Education. “We cannot fold our arms and leave everything to the government, although the UTA headquarters in Geneva has not given us money for the project for now, “We plan to take the initiative for them to see that Nigeria is serious about humanitarian project which is what they want to see before we get their support when they’ve seen what we’ve done.” she said Amalaha also added that within the action plan of UTA they will defend the political rights of Nigerian Electorates in the 2023 general election. “We will ensure that the votes of the people are counted and there will be a free, fair, and transparent election.” “The UTA will be constructively involved in the electioneering process as an observer to ensure that the rights of the people to vote and be voted for without fear of molestation and inducement is guaranteed. “We will achieve this by working closely with the independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), she added. Amalaha also said that the first set of rural community project are construction of two modern hospitals, rehabilitation and equipping of two primary schools in FCT Abuja. In his remarks, Dr Abubakar Jimoh, Director of Public AffairsNAFDAC and UTA board member while appreciating the president for bringing honor to Nigeria promised to stand and support UTA achieve its goals and objectives. “NAFDAC also have a role to play when it comes to access to quality health care services in the country and this is one of UTA focus.” “NAFDAC is very serious about health and will intervene in the health care sector of the Organization because we are all vulnerable to illnesses.” Jimoh said. NAN also reports that His Royal Highness, Alhaji Usman Nga-Kupi, the Sa’peyi of Garki, Dr Abubakar Jimoh, Director of Public Affairs NAFDAC among others were appointed as UTA Board Members.