WorldStage Newsonline– The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has commenced investigation into an alleged online trending video of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) discovered underground in inappropriate location in the compound of an high profiled person. INEC in a statement on Thursday by its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festua Okoye Esq  said anyone found culpable of this diabolical act trying to disenfranchise Nigerians will be sanctioned under the law. The National Commissioner, disclosed that the Commission is not taking these allegations lightly. He said, “We have commenced immediate investigation and anyone found culpable in this diabolical scheme clearly intended to disenfranchise Nigerians will be sanctioned under the law. “Every eligible Nigerian who registered as a voter is entitled to his/her PVC. The constitutional right to vote in any election must never be suppressed or abridged in any way. “As far as the record of the Commission is concerned, PVCs have been printed for all valid registrants in Nigeria up to 14th January 2022 and delivered to all the States of the Federation for collection by voters. We will not allow retrogressive elements to sabotage our efforts.” On the issues of voter registration, he explained that the compilation of the voters’ roll and issuance of PVCs are at the heart of any democratic elections and the Commission is working hard to ensure that every eligible citizen who appears in person at the registration venue is registered. He further assured Nigerians that this matter will be pursued to its logical conclusion. He said, “Already, the Commission is reviewing the procedure for collecting PVCs to make it less cumbersome and more transparent. “This will be a major topic at the next regular quarterly meeting with stakeholders so that working together we can find a lasting solution to the issue.” He appealed that to those who found the allegedly buried PVCs to deliver them to the nearest INEC State or Local Government office.