* Police confirm killing of area commander * As bandits burn down 2 health centres, shut 69 others in Katsina WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria’s Presidency has described as sad and unwelcome, the shooting incident near Dutsinma, Katsina State, at the convoy of cars carrying the Advance Team of security guards, protocol and media officers ahead of President Buhari’s trip to Daura for Sallah. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s media aide confirmed the incident in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja. He said the attackers opened fire on the convoy from ambush positions but were repelled by the military, police and Department of State Service personnel accompanying the convoy. ”Two persons in the convoy are receiving treatment for the minor injuries they suffered. ”All the other personnel, staff and vehicles made it safely to Daura,” he further stated. KILLING OF AREA COMMANDER Police Command in Katsina has confirmed the death of ACP Aminu Umar, the Area Commander in Dutsinma in an ambush by bandits in Safana Local Government of the state. The spokesperson of the command, SP Gambo Isah, disclosed this in a statement issued to newsmen on Tuesday in Katsina. He also said that another policeman died in the incident. “Today, July, 5, 2022, at about 11:30 a.m, a distress call was received that terrorists numbering over 300 on motorcycles, shooting sporadically with AK 47 rifles and General Purpose Machine Guns, ambushed ACP Umar and his team. “The late Area Commander with members of his team were on clearance operation of recalcitrant bandits/terrorists, in Zakka forest, Safana LGA of the state. “Consequently, the Area Commander and one other, gallantly lost their lives during a cross exchange of gun fire,” he added. Isah said that the Commissioner of Police, Idrisu Dabban-Dauda had expressed deep sympathy to the family of the deceased officers. He also prayed God to grant the deceased abode in Jannatul Firdausi. The commissioner reaffirmed the commitment of the police to the ongoing onslaught against terrorism in the state “until it is completely routed out.” BANDITS BURN DOWN 2 HEALTH CENTRES, SHUT 69 OTHERS IN KATSINA Katsina State Government has said that bandits have completely burnt down two primary health centres in Batsari Local Government Area of the state. Dr Shamsudeen Yahaya, the Executive Secretary, Katsina State Primary Health Care Development Agency disclosed this to newsmen on Tuesday in Katsina. According to him, 69 out of the over 1,800 healthcare centres in the state were also temporarily closed as a result of insecurity in some local government areas. “Most of the health facilities in the area were taken over by the miscreants, and the solar refrigerators provided in such facilities have been converted to use by the bandits. “The affected primary healthcare facilities are located in different areas of Jibia, Safana, Batsari, Faskari, Sabuwa and other frontline LGAs of the state,” he said. Yahaya also said some of the health workers were kidnapped, but later released. The agency’s boss said the situation has increasing request for redeployment by health workers in the affected areas. Yahaya, however, said the government had concluded plans to renovate one health centre in each of the 361 wards across the state. He also expressed the commitment of the government to complete the rehabilitation of dilapidated health centres in the state. Yahaya said that the state government would recruit 272 health workers to tackle the problem of manpower shortage in the health sector.