WorlStage Newsonline–  As the Lagos State House of Assembly on Thursday, in a unanimous vote sacked Mr Wale Mogaji, the Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Service Commission (LAHASCOM), the chairman has swiftly reacted that he will go to court to seek redress. The House has after a voice vote conducted by the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, at the plenary session also approved the appointment of Mrs Folashade Latona as the new Secretary of the Commission. The speaker said Latona would replace Mrs Esther Lambo, who retired from service recently. The House also confirmed Mr Olalekan Onafeko as the substantive Clerk of the House and elevated three other senior staff to the position of deputy clerks. Those elevated were Mr Babs Animashaun, Mr Taiwo Otun and Mrs Adenike Oshinowo. The House had earlier raised concerns over the June 8 boat mishap that led to the death of about 15 people. The House urged Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu to take urgent steps toward tackling flooding in some parts of the state. SACKED LAHASCOM CHAIRMAN CONDEMNS THE ACT OF ILLEGALITY The sacked Chairman, LAHASCOM, Mr Olawale Mogaji in a statement after his appointment was terminated by the assembly noted that due process was not followed with the termination of his appointment as the Chairman of the commission. The former chairman said it was very sad that the democracy had been bastardised with the conduct of those who are supposed to ensure the rule of law and sanctity of justice. “I heard through the news that the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly sack my appointment as Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Services Commission at the plenary today. “It is very sad that our Democracy has been basterdise with the conduct of those who are supposed to ensure the rule of law and sanctity of justice. “The speaker without recourse to the Service rules has been operating the commission like a unit of the assembly. “Recently, he appointed Mr Olalekan Onafeko on GL- 15 as Clerk of the House whereas, to be appointed as a clerk of the house, you must be a full Director on GL-17. “Also, today, he appointed another woman, Mrs Raulat Latona on GL-15 to be the secretary of the Commission, you must also be a full Director on GL-17,” he said. Mogaji said the unilateral action taken by the speaker, had obstructed the activities of the commission and any attempt to advice on the need for due process he always saw it as an affront. However, the embattled former LAHASCOM Chairman said he would remain steadfast and allow the law to take its course to protect his integrity.