NO REPORT OF MASS VIOLENCE, VOTE-BUYING  -POLICE The police say they have yet to receive reports of violence or vote-buying in Saturday’s Osun governorship election. Mr Johnson Kokumo, the Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID) said this after a visit to ward 5, unit 5 Salvation Army alekuwodo polling unit in Osogbo. Kokumo said that the security agencies had been up and doing in ensuring peaceful conduct of the election. He said however, that some arrests had been made by security agents in the course of the election. “Those who have violated electoral laws have been accosted,” he said. He said that investigations will be carried out on those arrested for further actions. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the police deployed 21,000 personnel to ensure hitch-free conduct of the election. Also speaking, Mr Dauda Mungadi, the Deputy Commandant General (DCG) of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in charge of Operations, said after a visit to ward 2 unit 7 Isale Osun, that there was sanity and orderliness in most polling units in the state. Mungadi said that although the election was still ongoing, the corps had not received reports of major issues of destruction of the voting process. He said that the NSCDC personnel were positioned to observe polling units and make arrests of suspected vote-buyers or persons with intentions to disrupt the election. He expressed satisfaction with the large voter turnout at polling units. The DCG advised residents to continue to conduct themselves peacefully as he described the election as “not a do or die affair”. “ There can only be one winner so cast your votes and let your votes count,” he said. Osun Poll: Labour party denies merging with PDP The Chairman of Labour Party in Osun, Mr Adebayo Bello, has denied the report that the party’s candidate, Lasun Yusuf, has collapsed his structure to support the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Ademola Adeleke. Bello told newsmen in Osogbo that the party could not and would not collapse its structure for anybody. Yusuf, a former Deputy Speaker of House of Representatives, is the flagbearer of the party in the state. Bello described the news as fake and handiwork of the mischiefs. “Those that are spreading the news are only hallucinating. “Lasun is still is in the race and  he is hoping for victory,” he said. Meanwhile, the Speaker, Osun House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, has commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the timely arrival of election materials and smooth conduct of the election. Owoeye told newmen in Ilesa that there had been meaningful improvement and development as far as voting process was concerned. The speaker also commended the electorate for their large turn out for the election. “I have seen meaningful improvement and development as far as the voting process is concerned. “The introduction of BVAS into our electoral process has made it easier for voters to vote quickly. “And, I will  like to say that INEC has improved in this process,” he said. Also, the Commissioner For Finance, Mr Bola Oyebamiji, lauded INEC for the introduction of Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS). Oyebamiji urged INEC to improve on the deployment of human capital in the future elections to cope with the large crowd. He also commended the electorate for coming out en masse to cast their vote. “The crowd here is overwhelmed and I believe they will vote for us,” Oyebamiji said. Also, Mr Wale Adedoyin (APC-Ilesa West), commended the large turnout of electorate. “The turnout has been massive and impressive as a result of sensitisation. “The fear of the people has been allayed by the presence of security men,” he said. PDP, APC CONFIDENT OF VICTORY, COMMEND INEC, ELECTORATE Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), have expressed confidence in winning the Osun governorship election. They also commended the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) for the timely arrival of voting materials, as well as the large turnout of voters. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Osun governorship election holds (today) Saturday, July 16. A member of House of Representatives, Mrs Taiwo Oluga,  who spoke with newsmen after casting her vote at Unit 2, ward 2, Oke Apata, in Gbongan town, commended the peaceful conduct of the election. Oluga, representing Ayeedade /Irewole/ Isokan federal constituency  also commended the large turnout of voters. She, however, said that the candidate of the APC would emerge victorious at the end of the election. “I want to give kudos to INEC for the timely arrival of election materials. “The security arrangement is perfect and the turn out is impressive. ” I am also confident that the APC candidate will win at the end of the day,” she said. Also speaking, Prince Dotun Babayemi, a Chieftain of PDP, who spoke with newsmen after casting his vote at Unit 2, Ward 2, Oke-Apata, Gbongan, commended INEC for timely arrival of election materials. Babayemi also said that the candidate of the party would emerge victorious. ” Everything is going well and I  urge law enforcement officers to ensure that security of lives and property remain a priority. “There is  no intimidation. We are family. We are brothers and sisters. “All we are doing is to get the right policies in place by electing the right people. “I am not being divisive but we need to get the right people in power. ”  The two polling units I have been to, the people have been yearning for this day and I can assure you that the PDP will win. “INEC seems to be getting it right and we hope that is reflected all through the election,” he said. EFCC STORMS POLLING UNITS Officials of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), have stormed some polling units in Ede in Saturday’s Osun governorship election to observe the election. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that personnel were seen moving around the polling units and observing proceedings as voters took turn to get accreditation and cast their votes. In ward 2 unit 9, Ede North, the EFCC personnel, dressed in their red jackets took strategic positions apparently trying to to see if there was vote-buying by insatiable politicians. A visit to ward 4 unit 1, also revealed that the personnel had taken strategic positions in the polling unit. The situation was not different in ward 5 unit 1, as some of them were also sited moving round and observing the proceedings. NAN reports that the anti-graft agency is waging war against vote buying and inducement, in order to ensure that the electorate vote for their choices in the election. ADEMOLA ADELEKE VOTES, HAILS INEC, SECURITY AGENCIES Sen. Ademola Adeleke, the Governorship Candidate, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), cast his vote at exactly 8.50 a.m at Ward 2 polling Unit 9 in Ede North Local Government area of Osun. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the BVAS initially rejected the thumb print of Adeleke. He later went through the facial recognition before he was able to vote. Adeleke, shortly after voting, commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for making the accreditation processes and voting smooth and easy. He said that the election was so far peaceful, expressing confidence of winning after the whole exercise and becoming the next Governor of Osun. Adeleke, also commended the security personnel for their commitment toward ensuring the safety of lives and property in the ongoing governorship election. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the governorship election is taking place in all the 30 local government areas of Osun with 3,763 polling units and 332 registration areas. Also, Ede North has a total registered voters of 71, 750 for the governorship election, with 151 polling units and 11 registration areas. Also, Ede South has 54, 880 registration voters, with 89 polling units and 10 registration areas. AP CANDIDATE ALLEGES VOTE BUYING The Governorship Candidate of Accord Party, Dr Akin Ogunbiyi, says vote buying characterised the ongoing election in various parts of the state, especially in Ayedire, Ile-Ogbo and Osogbo environs. Ogunbiyi made the allegations shortly after he cast his vote with his wife at Ile-Ogbo Ward 1, Unit 1, Methodist Primary School. He expressed dissatisfaction with the voting pattern, especially at Ward 1, Unit 1 in Aiyedire. According to him, some political parties were inducing voters with the sum of N3,000 and N4,000 under the watch of security personnel. Ogunbiyi said: “When I got to Ward 1 Unit 5, I observed that there was vote buying with some people being offered N3,000 and N4,000 by different political parties. “I am not buying vote. I am a candidate of Accord and even, if l have the money to buy votes, I will not do such, because it is the selfless service we promised this people. “I witnessed it , there was vote buying in Osogbo, there was vote buying in Ile-Ogbo. Let the whole world know what is happening,” Ogunbiyi said. He urged the electorate to cast their votes according to their consciences, saying that they should not allow any political party to buy the future of their children. The governorship candidate said that the use of “state boys” for the election was unfortunate and detrimental to democratic good governance. He urged the electoral umpire to quickly address the issue, saying that it was paramount to the success of the election. He commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the peaceful conduct of the election without any major violence. NSCDC LAUDS ELECTORATE FOR PEACEFUL CONDUCT Acting Commander-General (ACG), Fasiu Adeyinka, the Zonal Coordinator, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) for Osun, Ondo and Ekiti, has commended the electorates for a peaceful conduct at the ongoing Osun gubernatorial election. Adeyinka gave the commendation during his visit to St. Gabriel Primary School Yemoo, Moore, Ward 3 and 4, Polling Units 003 and 004, on Saturday, in Ile-Ife. He said that the voters were calm, cool and easy going in all polling units visited without any problem. According to him, the voters are well conducted and with no fear of anything whatsoever. The ACG appreciated the electorate for heeding their advice and sensitisation campaign to them. “In fact, since we have been conducting elections, this 2022 election is a good example of a peaceful conduct by the electorates. “This will repeat itself in the general election, ” he stated. Adeyinka admonished all and sundry to maintain the peaceful coexistence for election to be free, fair and credible. Also, the Chairman, Elders Forum of All Progressive Forum (APC), Ife Central Local Government, Prince Felix Awofisayo, commended the electorate and INEC over the peaceful conduct of Osun State Governorship election. Awofisayo made the commendation at Bishop’s Court, Iremo Ward 11, on Saturday, in Ile-Ife. He said that with the peaceful conduct of the poll observed, there was hope for the state and 2023 general elections. ” The election is peaceful, calm and there is very massive turnout. So, as I am speaking, as of this time, honestly if it goes through like this to the end, then we have hope for this nation. “So far so good, it’s been peaceful and smooth. “This is the first time that accreditation and voting would go on very well, it didn’t take me up to five minutes before I was accredited and voted for my right choice. “The INEC, Ad hoc staff, and security personnel have been wonderful, particularly in my local government. “In the same vein, a former Ambassador to China, Amb Segun Bamgbetan, said that the election was going on perfectly well,” he said. Bamgbetan said that people were even surprised at the way they comported themselves in a peaceful manner at the ongoing electoral exercise. “It means that things are getting better and the youths are waking up, by not allowing politicians to use them for political thuggery, “he said.