The Federal Government  on Monday condemned the call by five US Republican Senators asking for the redesignation of Nigeria as a country of particular concern because of alleged persecution of Christians. The Senators who made the call in a letter to the US Secretary of State,  Antony  Blinken also alleged violation of  freedom of Christians’ rights to practice their religion. Responding to the allegation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in London, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed said the call was based on false premise and misunderstanding of what was going on in the country. NAN reports the minister is in London for engagements with international media as well as some relevant Non-Governmental-Organisations. “You will recall that only  few months ago Nigeria  was taken out of the list of countries of particular concern because it was proven that here is no iota of true in the allegation that Christians or any religion was being persecuted or people were not allowed to  practice religion of their choice, ‘We want to say once again that Nigeria does not have a policy that denies people the freedom to practice their religion “The country also does not have a policy of violation freedom of religion and it is not true that Nigeria persecute anybody on account of his or her faith,” he said. Mohammed noted that the  Constitution of Nigeria guarantees the right of anybody to practice his or her own faith without molestation and the government has always safeguard the constitutional provision  jealously. He said most commentators who were not well versed in the politics and happenings in Nigeria took criminalities and communal clashes  as issues of religious persecution. “Nobody in Nigeria is being persecuted But we have issues of criminality going on and the criminals really do not make distinction of any religion. “They kidnap for money, they hold people on ransome irrespective of their religion and there are some issues of communal matters dating back to many years. “If statistic is to be taken, I can say confidently that as many Muslims as Christians have been victims of these criminals,” he said. According to the minister, the only known group that target Christians was the Islamic State’s West Africa ProvinceI (SWAP) He, however said that the federal government had mounted a ;large scale military operations to wipe out the criminals and it is yielding results. “What ISWAP is doing is that because of their dwindling influence hey are now attacking Churches and Christians n order to create crisis between varios religious group. “But as a government, we are after them,” he said. The minister said some NGOs were also feeding the international community with wrong information to get funds from donors. Mohammed reiterated that the two major religions in Nigeria, Islam and Christianity are also collaborating to find solution to the crisis ad bring peace and harmpn. He gave the example of  the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) which is working to foster unity and better understanding between the Christian and Islamic faiths. The minister solicited support from multilateral organisations and foreign countries in tackling the challenges if insecurity.