WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria’ Senate President and Chairman, APC North East Caucus, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan  has hailed the nomination of Senator Kashim Ibrahim Shettima  as the running mate to the presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the 2023 general elections. Lawan in a statement said Asiwaju Tinubu and our party had made an excellent choice in Senator Shettima. “The former two-term Governor of Borno State entered public service with impeccable credentials, which he has burnished by demonstrating great competence, integrity and courage in all the positions that he has held,” the statement said. “His background in academics and the private sector prepared him for the achievements that he has recorded in politics as Governor and since his election to the Senate in 2019. “A loyal and committed member of our party, Senator Shettima has what it takes to be an excellent running mate to our flag bearer, and insha Allah, the Vice President of Federal Republic of Nigeria from next year. “We of the North East Caucus of the APC attest that Senator Kashim Ibrahim Shettima is the right man for the job and that he will be an able and loyal lieutenant to our incoming President, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, insha Allah. “We as a Caucus pledge our full cooperation and support to our candidates as we march again towards another resounding victory in the general elections. “We enjoin all members of our party across Nigeria too to give the APC Standard bearer and his running mate their utmost support. “We also assure Nigerians that the choices that our party has made in our presidential ticket are for the best of our country. “May God bless our great country, Nigeria.” MY RESPECT FOR BOTH FAITHS IS ABSOLUTE – TINUBU The Presidential flagbearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu had earlier in a statement expressed his absolute respect and regard for both the Christian and Muslim faiths in the country. Tinubu, whilst announcing Sen. Kashim Shettima, a Muslim,  two-term Governor of Borno State as his running mate, stated by his selection, he is not oblivious of the religious and ethnic sensitivities of the nation, but made the choice in the overriding interest of the country. ” I am mindful of the energetic discourse concerning the possible religion of my running mate. Just and noble people have talked to me about this. Some have counselled that I should select a Christian to please the christian community. Others said I should pick a Muslim to appeal to the Muslim community. Clearly, I cannot do both”. “Both sides of the debate have impressive reason and passionate arguments supporting their position. Both arguments are right in their own way. But neither is right in the way that Nigeria needs at the moment. As President, I hope to govern this country towards uncommon progress. This will require innovation. It will require steps never taken. It will also require decisions that are politically difficult and rare”. “May I say this to all of you, especially those  disappointed in my selection based on religious considerations. I will not and cannot ignore the religious concerns and ethnic sensitivities of our people. Taking them into due consideration is an important part of good and able governance”, Tinubu emphasised. The APC standard bearer however enthused that the challenges facing the nation requires placing competence in governance above religious sentiments. “Religion ethnicity and region cannot always, and fully determine our path. To forge ahead as a Nation towards development and prosperity, we must break free of old binds. We must recalibrate our political calculations to where competence and fairness matter, more than reducible demographics”, Tinubu asserted