*Lagos NCoS beefs up security, warns criminals WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria has ordered the Nigerian Correctional Service(NCoS) to work with other security agencies to fortify all correctional facilities in the country to forestall a repeat of attack on the Kuje Correctional Centre. This is contained in a statement issued by the Media Adviser to the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, Mr Sola Fasure, on Thursday in Abuja. Aregbesola also directed that all personnel be vigilant and alert, to avoid recurrence and also directed that full investigation into the incident be carried out as soon as possible. He warned that appropriate actions would be taken should any complicity be established and pledged to continue to strengthen all correctional facilities to keep all Nigerians safe at all times. “We are working with the Ministry of Defence and the office of the National Security Adviser and other intelligence and security agencies to ensure the attackers and the escaped inmates are captured and returned to custody. “As we speak, security personnel are combing the whole area, up to a distance of 100km radius, looking for them. All checkpoints nationwide have been put on alert. “However, more than 400 of them have been brought in and more are still coming,’’he said. Aregbesola appealed to all residents to be calm but vigilant, adding that security was a collective work between government and the citizens. “Kindly therefore, report all suspicious individuals and activities to the nearest security agency around you. “We appeal also to doctors and medical workers to treat and then immediately report anyone with gunshot wounds to the law enforcement agency,’’the minister added. The NCoS said that a security personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), drafted to the centre was shot dead by the attackers who stormed the facility through the fence and the main entrance using explosive devices. A total of 879 inmates escaped the  facility during the attack. Out of this number, 443 were said to be on the run, another 443 were capture leaving the total inmates currently in the facility at 551 in total. The NCoS said it will deploy its Corrections Information Management System , (CIMS), in collaboration with the National Identity Management Commission, (NIMC),  to track all fleeing inmates and return them to custody.” LAGOS The Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS), Lagos State, has beefed up security to prevent any ugly development in its facilities. The spokesman of the Lagos NCoS, Mr Rotimi Oladokun, confirmed the reinforcement of security in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos. Oladokun was reacting to the recent jail break at Kuje Medium Security Custodial Centre, Abuja, on Tuesday night. He said the security at all the custodial centres in the state had been tightened against possible attacks. Oladokun said the personnel of the NCoS in collaboration with other security agencies had been on relentless intensive watch since the incident. He disclosed that the NCoS had requested for more hands from the security agencies to ensure that no loophole was left for the penetration of the aliens. He warned criminal elements with tendencies to carry out jail breaks to have a rethink, saying they would not be spared. “Nigerians would remember vividly how men of the Lagos NCoS, and other security agencies foiled an attempted jail break by some inmates of Ikoyi Custodial Centre in October 2020. “The inmates wanted to take advantage of the #EndSARS protest and enforced curfew in the state to stage a jail break; however they met stiff resistance by the personnel at the centre,” he recalled. Oladokun urged residents of the state to go about their normal routines without any fear.