WorldStage Newsonline– Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa  of Delta and Vice-Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that  the state was working toward becoming Nigeria’s centre for Medium, Small and Micro Enterprises (MSME). The governor who stated this on Friday in Asaba at  the graduation ceremony of the third cycle of the Women Empowerment Skill Acquisition Programme (WESAP) said that with the creation of more than 128,813 direct, indirect jobs through the various job and wealth creation programmes of his administration, Delta would  become a hub for MSMEs in the next few years. The governor said that with sustained growth of MSMEs, the issue of unemployment would become a thing of the past because people would become employers of labour rather than job-seekers. He commended the State Ministry of Women Affairs and all the programme management for their dedication and consistency. According to him, WESAP is our platform to enhance social inclusion by equipping the womenfolk with the necessary knowledge, skills, and resources to be productively engaged. “I am pleased that the programme has remained steadfast to its mandate since it was inaugurated in November 2020.” He commended  the  Heritage Bank for their current partnership, which had infused better financial management, transparency, and accountability into the programme. “Today, we are empowering 280 women, including 12  persons living with disabilities who, at the expense of the state government, underwent a six-months training in arts and craft at the Farm Craft Centre for the blind in Isheri, Lagos.* According to him, today’s graduates bring the total number of WESAP beneficiaries to 835. ”They have been resourced with the vocational skills to run various enterprises in fashion design, hairdressing, confectionaries, decoration, and makeover/head gear. “As of June 1, 2022, 128,813 direct and indirect jobs have been created through the various job creation, youth empowerment, and social investments delivery platforms of the administration. “While this has impacted positively on the economy of multiplied thousands of households, I guarantee you that the maximum impact of these programmes will be felt in no distant future when Delta  becomes the MSMEs hub of Nigeria. “To the ladies who begin their entrepreneurship journey today, it is my hope that you will follow in the footsteps of those who have gone before you and make good success of this opportunity of a lifetime. “You are among the privileged few who were enlisted in the programme from a long list of others who were equally qualified, but due to limited resources, we could only admit a limited number for now.” Okowa therefore urged the beneficiaries to reciprocate the good gesture of the government by committing themselves to disciplined work ethic, prudent management, and excellent customer service. “It is now time to put to use, the knowledge you acquired in terms of personal effectiveness, sales and marketing, appropriate pricing, excellent customer service, and business management. “Thankfully, Heritage Bank is there to facilitate the opening of your business accounts, which will enable you to separate your personal finances from the company funds and place yourself on a monthly salary. “This will bring discipline into the running of the business, help to measure and monitor growth, as well as enforce accountability,” he stated. Earlier in her welcome address, the State Commissioner for Women Affairs, Mrs Flora Alanta said the WESAP programme was established three years ago to ameliorate the economic hardship the COVID-19 pandemic unleashed on families. Alanta said that an empowered woman remained  the bedrock for the economic emancipation of families adding that the future of families depended on the economic empowerment of women. She noted that women needed to have skills that would earn them a living, adding that 280 women including 12 persons with disabilities were among the beneficiaries. In his goodwill message, the Heritage Bank Group Head of Edo/Delta region, Mr Charles Ojakovo lauded Okowa for his unparalleled passion  for the growth of SMEs as a way to rescuing Nigerians form hunger and poverty. He pledged the partnership of the bank to the job and wealth creation programmes of the state government.