L-R: Ozena Utulu, Ag. Group Head, Corporate Communications, Heritage Bank; Olaolu Gbenjo, Convener, Live Gratitude; Titilayomi Babaoye, Group Head, Inclusive Banking, Heritage Bank during Gbenjo’s Concert for Life gratitude celebration and partnership with Heritage Bank on Ynspyre held in Lagos. Heritage Bank has disclosed plans to further adopt Ynspyre, a digital product to help cater and deepen support for professionals and amateurs for the creative and entertainment industry’s growth. The bank stated that in a bid to further expand its reach by connecting with more groups that align with its digital banking product vision, it has partnered Xplo-Sound owned by Laolu Gbenjo, a multi-talented recording live performing artist. This was revealed by Titilayomi Babaoye, Group Head, Inclusive Banking, Heritage Bank during Gbenjo’s Concert for Life gratitude celebration. She explained that to help create an incentive-based ecosystem, the Bank has continued to partner with organizations like Silverbird amongst others. Babaoye said “as a forward-looking financial institution, its strength lays in the ability to spot and mould talents into great professionals.” She noted that the Ynspyre product was established to train, nurture and arm young employees with the right skills needed to fast-track development and enable talents to flourish. She further explained that the aim of Heritage Bank being at the forefront of empowering youth in the entertainment and other sectors, is to emancipate the latent entrepreneurial spirit in the teeming youths to unleash their contributions on the growth of the economy. The CEO, Gbenjo, during the Concert for Life Gratitude celebration, expressed readiness of Xplo-sound to collaborate Heritage Bank on its digital product, Ynspyre to propel the growth of creative industry, through the supporting young talented Nigerian artists. “I am aware Heritage Bank has a product for the creative industry called Ynspyre, I am happy to work with Heritage Bank to promote this product so that the young talented Nigeria artist can access it. He added that beside the funding, the young artists need the Bank’s advisory Midas touch in areas like financial literacy and entertainment mentorship You begin your journey by opening an Ynspyre account via the product website: https://ynspyreng.com/#/. Select “Open an Ynspyre Savings Account” and enter your details. Ynspyre Accounts come in three variants: Ynspyre Classic Current Account (N5000 Minimum Account Opening Balance). Ynspyre Extra Current Account (N10,000 Minimum Account Opening Balance). Ynspyre Savings Account (N5000 Minimum Account Opening Balance). You stand a chance to win a 3-month media internship position with allowances and potential employment at the Silverbird Group, a leader in Nigeria’s media and entertainment industry. You gain access to a special N1,000,000,000 (One Billion Naira only) lending facility from Heritage Bank to fund your creative business.