WorldStage Newsonline– Troops of Operation HADIN KAI have arrested two terrorist collaborators involved in logistic and petroleum suppliers to Boko Haram terrorists in the  North East Zone, according to the Defence Headquarters (DHQ). Director Defence Media Operation, Major General Bernard Onyeiko who disclosed this at a media briefing in Abuja said that between 1-5th  June, a total of 4,770 Boko Haram terrorists and Islamic State West Africa Province members and families comprising 864 adult males, 1,415 women and 2,490 children, had surrendered. While giving an update of troops operations within the six geopolitical zones, Onyeiko explained that they discovered a total of 3,810,000 litres of crude oil in the South-South region. According to him, in the South-south zone, “Troops of Operation DAKATAR DA BARAWO between 17 and 19 June 2022 carried out anti-illegal bunkering, oil theft and other sundry operations at various parts of Delta and Rivers States. Several wooden boats, storage tanks, dugout pits laden with illegal refined Automotive Gas Oil were discovered and a total of  930,000 liters of Automotive Gao Oil and 1,150,000 litres of stolen crude oil was discovered. In another operation by ICTOPUS GRIP in which the troops engaged those into massive anti-illegal bunkering, oil refining and crude oil theft in various parts of the South South Zone, he said, “Several storage tanks, dugout pits, oven, boats laden with both crude oil and illegal refined products were discovered. “Within this period, a total of  2,144,000 litres of Automotive Gao Oil, 2,660,000 litres of stolen crude oil, 14,000 liters of Premium Motor Spirit and 14,000 litres of Dual Purpose Kerosine were discovered. Also, 21 criminals involved in this criminal activities were arrested.” In the North west zone, Major General Onyeiko, explained that on 21 June 2022 troops of Forward Operation Base Bakura Operation HADARIN DAJI responded to distress call of terrorists activities at Rafin Dankura in Bakura Local Government Area of Zamfara State. “Troops engaged the terrorists who were trying to abduct innocent civilians in a shootout. After the encounter, troops were able to rescue the six kidnapped civilians and neutralised two bandits in the process. Items recovered includes 2 AK 47, 1x 36 Handgrenade, 2 x Cell phones and the sum two hundred and nineteen thousand (211,915.00). “Similarly on 21 June 2022, troops made contacts with marauding terrorists at Maigora in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State and neutralized two terrorists in the process. “Air Component of Operation HADARIN DAJI carried out air interdiction on 22 June 22 at Kofar Danya Village in Bukkuyum Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Following report about the planned attack on KofarDanya Village, the air component mobilized to the location and sighted over 150 terrorists converged under a thick vegetation. “Accordingly, Nigerian Air Force platforms engaged the terrorists with heavy bombardment which destroyed the terrorists concentration camp. Consequently, credible feedback from the locals around Kofar Danya disclosed that over Eighty Two (82) of the terrorists suffered heavy casualties as many of them were neutralized while other sustained various degree of injuries. In North Central Zone, Troops of WHIRL STROKE while on patrol at Udeigeneral area in Guma Local Government Area of Benue State impounded a trailer with registration number ABUJA  KWL 846 XB along Udei-Makurdi Lafia road fully loaded with cut to size vandalized rail tracks and sleepers. Consequently, all the 7 persons on board the vehicle were arrested. The vehicle and the suspects were handed over to the relevant authority for further action. “Relatedly, troops of Operation WHIRL STROKE arrested one Mr Ardo Manu Abdulrahman Marenewo a suspected gun runner who specialized in leasing of arms to kidnappers and other criminal elements in Taraba State. Item recovered from the suspect includes 4 cell phones and the sum of N74,340.00. “Also at Zaki Ibiam conducted raid operations at a kidnappers hideout Maraba in UkyonguItyuluv Ward of Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State in the process one Mr Ichen Gbaka aged 65 years and his wife Mrs Salomi Gbaka a bandit collaborator were arrested. “Similarly, on 24 June 2024 troops on clearance patrol arrested Four(4) suspected kidnappers at Igumale Council Ward of Ado Local Government Area Benue State All arrested criminals have been handed over to the Police for further necessary action. Furthermore,             on 26 June 2022 own troops carried out a raid operation at a bandits hide out at Mbahuwuhe village in Utange council ward in Katsina-Ala Local Government Area of Benue state. “During the operation 3 bandits were neutralized and a kidnapped civilian Mr Auva Tisa who was on blind fold in the hideout was rescued with injuries and he is presently undergoing treatment. Some items including 1x motorcycle, 2 cell phones among others were recovered before the hideout was brought down. “Furthermore, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN arrested 2 suspected gun runners. Messrs Augustine DavouNyam and Pam Nyam (AKA TRIGGER) during an operation at Zawan and Du Communities. On 24 and 25 June 2022 troops recovered one locally fabricated AK47 rifle, one danegun and 3 cutlasses, and arrested two notorious criminals, MrRufai Usman and Abubakar Ahmed were arrested by troops at Ex-ladi general area.” He also explained that, on 28 June 2022 based on credible intelligence troops conducted clearance operation in conjunction with vigilantes at Kan Duniya Village, Barkin Ladi Local Government Area, Plateau State, neutralized one Mr SafiyanuBala 25 years notorious bandit and kidnapper. Same day troops on fighting patrol in pursuit of 2 suspected kidnappers around Sara High Ground Mangu Local Government Area Plateau State on a motorcycle. Items recovered are,  2 x AK47 rifles, 101 x rounds of 7.62mm special, 5 x magazines, 1 xmotor cycle, 1 x iron digger and 2 x black jackets amongst others. He said, “Also, on 28 June 2022 in Fanock Village, Jema’a Local Government Area Kaduna State and found a Toyota Corolla car with registration number ABUJA KUJ 452 AZ with no occupant. Troops conducted search operations in the surrounding bush and rescued 3 kidnaped civilians; 2 females and a male. “Similarly, on the same day troops arrested 10 armedrobbery suspects at Kafanchan Town, Jema’a Local Government Area Kaduna State. Items recovered from the criminals include: TV, DVD, gas cookers, Mattrasses, woofer, phones, scissors, among others. The suspected criminals are presently undergoing interrogations.” In the North East Zone, he said, “Troops of Operation HADIN KAI in the North East Zone have intensified the tempo of their operations. The troops carried out several operational activities in Buduwa, Bama-Pulka road, Tuwe Village, Konduga-Kawuri road, Brema in Damboa Motor Park, Tashangoto, Benishek, Kukaneta all in Borno State. “These operations led to the rescue of abducted persons, neutralization of terrorists, arrest of terrorists members, recovery of arms and ammunition and other security related items. On 17 and 18 June 2022 troops of 152 Battalion at Buduwa in Bama Local Government Area of Borno State encountered fleeing Boko Haram Terrorist/Islamic State West Africa Province fighters and engaged the terrorists and in the encounter 7 of the terrorists were neutralized and 14 rustled cattle and 3 bicycles were recovered. “On 21 June 2022 troops arrested some terrorist collaborators and logistics suppliers. Mallam Abacha Usman was arrested at Benshek, Mallam Ibrahim Gira along Damboa– Biu Road and Mallam Ibrahim Gira a notorious terrorist petroleum supplier. “While in the South East Zone, between 15 to 25 June 2022 a combined team of security agencies led by 302 Artillery Regiment carried out Raid operation on proscribed Independent People of Biafra and Eastern Security Network camps at Ukpor in Nnewi South Local Government Area. After a fierce gun battle two of the criminals were neutralized. Several items were recovered from their camp which includes 2 AK47 rifles, 2 pump action rifles, one dane gun, 3 magazines, 5 water gel Improvised Explosive Device, 3 generator sets, one SUV and 2 cell phones. “Furthermore, on 27 June 2022 own troops discovered a notorious hide of late Double Lion a notorious terrorist after a shot out one criminal member of the gang was neutralized. Items recovered from the camp include one dane gun, 8 vehicles (different makes). All recovered items are in own custody.  “Finally, I wish to convey the military high command commendations on the efforts of the troops in the various theatres, of operation across the Country. Furthermore, the entire populace is hereby appreciated for the support given to the Armed Forces and security agencies in the conduct of their operations and also urged to continue to provide information on criminals in their locality. The media community is also acknowledged for their partnership and cooperation with the military and other security agencies in our quest to return peace to our dear Country.”