WorldStage Newsonline– The pan-Yoruba Socio-cultural association, Afenifere, Ondo State chapter and the Niger Delta Youth Council (NDYC) have urged the National Assembly to reject the National Water Resources Bill, which was represented on June 29. The bill was presented for first reading by the Chairman of the House Committee on Water Resources, Sada Soli. The bill, which was introduced and rejected by the lawmakers during the 8th Assembly following public outcry, was reintroduced in the current 9th National Assembly in 2020 but faced adverse reaction from Nigerians, forcing the National Assembly to step it down. Afenifere, in a statement issued at the end of its Caucus meeting on Friday in Akure by Mr Remi Olayiwola, the Publicity Secretary, said the reintroduction of the bill was an insult to Nigerians from all the geopolitical divide. The association urged all the traditional rulers and political leaders from the state to work relentlessly against the bill. “For the umpteenth time, a bill tagged the National Water Resources Bill, seeking to take over all inter-state rivers, and hydrological territory in all parts of the country has been tabled before the House of Representatives. “Here is a Bill that had on two occasions in the 8th and 9th Assemblies failed to stand the test of time. “Why should there be the desperation to bring the same Bill back to the House? It is simply another unholy way to enslave the people of this country,” Afenifere stated. On the implication of the Water Resources Bill on the people, the association noted that states of the federation stand the risk of losing their identities and rights to the Federal Government. According to the association, while majority of the people are requesting for more decentralisation of government, the bill is seeking for more responsibilities for the Federal Government. Afenifere noted that the National Water Resources Bill would have negative consequences and was a “cunny actions being cleverly foisted on the nation, which must be resisted by well-meaning Nigerians.” It stated that if the Federal Government had embarked on restructuring of the country as being canvassed by the leadership of Afenifere over the years, the re-introduction of Water bill would not have been necessary. NIGER DELTA YOUTH COUNCIL KICKS The Niger Delta Youth Council (NDYC) has also  called on the National Assembly not to pass Water Resources Bill, saying the it would contradict the existing Land Use Act. The Council also described the bill as an attempt by the Federal Government to take over the ownership and control of the nation’s water resources which contradicted the existing laws. This is contained in a statement jointly signed by the NDYC National Coordinator, Mr Jator Abido and National Secretary, Mr Kede Michael. They said, “ Going by the stipulations of Land Use Act, all lands comprised in the territory of each state in the federation are vested in the Governor of that state. “And such lands shall be held in trust and administered for the use and common benefit of all Nigerians in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Making another parallel law contradicts the existing law.’’ According to them, ceding the control of state lands and water resources to the Federal Government will not only impoverish people but make them vulnerable. The Niger Delta group called on all legislators and stakeholders from the South South and riverine areas to rise up in strong opposition to the Water Resources Bill. It would be recalled that the bill was initially introduced and rejected during the Eighth Assembly, following public outcry which prompted the failure of the bill to sail through Eighth Assembly. However, the bill was re-introduced at the Ninth Assembly. The Chairman of the House Committee on Rules and Business, Abubakar Fulata (APC/Jigawa), had moved a motion on July 23, 2020, calling for the reopening of 11 bills, including the Water Resources Bill, not passed by the Eighth Assembly. But few days ago, there was a dispute at the House of Representatives but concerned lawmakers kicked against the reintroduction of the controversial Bill slated for first reading.