WorldStage Newsonline– President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Sen. Ademola Adeleke, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), following victory of the party in Saturday’s gubernatorial election in Osun. The President’s congratulatory message is contained in a statement  by his spokesman, Mr Femi Adesina, on Sunday in Abuja. The president expressed  conviction that with the election over, the people of Osun had expressed their will through the ballot, and the will of the people must always matter and be respected in a democracy. According to him, the successful conduct of the election is a further testimony to the maturity and commitment of all stakeholders – the electoral body, security agencies, political parties, the media, civil society and the electorate- to further strengthen the integrity of the electoral process in the country. Buhari reassured the nation that the commitment of this administration ”toward having credible elections remains unshaken.” DELTA PDP FELICITATES The  Delta Chapter of the PDP   has congratulated Sen. Ademola Adeleke on his victory as Governor -elect of Osun. The party’s felicitation which was conveyed in a statement by its State Publicity Secretary, Dr Ifeanyi Osuoza on Sunday in Asaba, described the victory from Saturday’s governorship election in Osun as well-deserved triumph. According to the party,  the victory is a solid foundation on which the PDP rescue mission for Nigeria in the 2023 general elections will be anchored. “Delta PDP warmly and heartily congratulates Sen. Nurudeen Jackson Ademola Adeleke, on your brave, courageous, and hard-fought victory to emerge triumphant, as the duly elected governor of Osun. “His excellency and our leader, Gov. Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, the Executive Governor of Delta  and the Vice Presidential candidate of our great party, PDP, has already captured the huge importance of the Osun  election at  the grand finale rally at Osogbo. “There  Okowa said: “Osun election is very critical and important to the PDP. This election is very important to us because if we win in Osun, it will send a strong signal that we are ready to rescue the nation. ‘The foundation of what is to come is that we have to deliver Osun  to be able to inspire more hope and change the narrative in the country for more positive development. “People are pained because of insecurity and other challenges, but if we are to turn around this nation for good, we must work together to form the government at the national level. “With PDP, there is greater  hope for the future. It is for us to collectively work together for the success of the party starting with the Osun election.” The statement said:  “We want to state with great pride that this is the very first political assignment of our dear Gov. Okowa, the vice presidential candidate of PDP and he has of course, delivered success in flying colours, as he has always done and will continue to do. “We rejoice with Sen. Adeleke, the PDP family in the South West and indeed the great people of Osun. “And with this resounding and authoritative triumph, let us state categorically that the PDP has delivered a forceful and definitive statement with this result that it is going for total victory in 2023 and there is no stopping the rescue Nigeria mission from now on. VICTORY GOOD BEGINNING FOR PDP Sen. Nicholas Tofowomo (PDP – Ondo South) says the outcome of the governorship poll in Osun is a good begining for the Peoples Democratic party (PDP) ahead of 2023 general elections. Tofowomo gave the notion in a statement on Sunday in Okitipupa by his Media Aide, Mr Olumide Akinrinlola, while congratulating Adekeke over his victory at the poll. He lauded the PDP leadership led by Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the governors, members of the party and other stakeholders for their support and committment to the victory of the party. The lawmaker also hailed the good people of the state for using their votes to elect their preffered candidate. “Kudos to the good people of Osun State for using their votes massively for their preffered candidate and resisting vote buying, rigging and other factors militaling against good governnance. “I thank the leadership of PDP, especially the presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar, the governors, members of our party and other stakeholders who were committed to our victory in Osun State. “I sincerely appreciates all the governors and other stakeholders who used their positions very well to support the PDP in Osun State. “I rejoice and congratulate Sen. Adeleke on his well deserved victory as the incoming governor of Osun State, this is indeed a good beginning for our party ahead 2023 general elections,” he said. OSUN PEOPLE HAVE SPOKEN -AYU The National Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Iyorcha Ayu has congratulated the party’s candidate in Osun governorship election, Sen. Ademola Adeleke on his victory, saying the people of Osun has spoken. Ayu said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja, saying that the victory was attained in spite of numerous attempts by the State Government to frustrate the party. “We had to use the party’s state secretariat. As it were, we couldn’t have access to the stadium, but we had access to the people’s hearts, loyalty and votes. “The convincing win of 403, 371 against Oyetola’s 375, 027 is ample proof of that. “Today is, therefore, not just a day of double restoration – it’s a day of redemption too. It restores PDP to power and redeems the Osun people. “I congratulate the two-time winner, the tenacious Adeleke. I congratulate the good people and residents of Osun. I hail every party stakeholder who stood with us in action, prayers and hope,” he said. Ayu added:“You have kept faith with the PDP. You refused to be intimidated. You refused to be bought over with foodstuffs and 30 silver coins. You said no to thuggery and vote-fraud. You have done well.” He said that Osun election was a referendum and a prove that Nigerians wanted PDP back. “Indeed, PDP is coming,” he said. He saluted the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as well as security agencies for toeing the path of neutrality and ensuring that the votes counted. “The task before us now is to transit from opposition to governance . This we shall do. “With Osun done, next villa! “We call on all PDP members and all Nigerians to join the moving PDP train. Don’t be left behind. Our next destination is Aso villa. “With PDP,” Nigeria shall rise again. Indeed, she is already rising. Osun people have spoken. The rest of Nigeria shall speak with a resounding voice on  Feb. 25, 2023,” he said. Ayu lauded the PDP National Campaign Council for the Osun governorship election, headed by Gov. Duoye Diri, for a superlative performance. He also thanked the party Vice Presidential Candidate Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa for his tireless efforts. “The PDP is proud of all of you. “You have helped to return PDP to power after 12 years. You have returned hope to Osun,” he said. SIGN THAT NIGERIA SHALL BE GREAT AGAIN – LAGOS PDP CHAIR The Lagos State Chairman of the  PDP, Mr Philips Aivoji, says  INEC’s conduct and outcome of Saturday’s Osun governorship election is a sign that Nigeria shall be great again. Aivoji said that the outcome of the poll was a signal that hope was not lost for the country and its electoral system. He said: “That is the voice of the people; that is what the people want. Despite the power of the incumbent and against all odds, the people stood their ground. “This is a sign that Nigeria shall be great again. “We hope things will continue like this where people will come out and vote for whosoever they want and their will won’t be subverted. This is the way we can build Nigeria.” Aivoji commended the electoral umpire and security for ensuring free, fair and credible election in the state. The chairman said that PDP’s electoral victory in Osun was an indication of a great hope for PDP in 2023. “Our victory in Osun election means victory for the PDP all the way in 2023. All our candidates beginning from our Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to the House of Assembly candidates will have total victory. “This is a good omen for PDP and I can assure you that PDP is not going to lose any election any more,” Aivoji said. INEC returning officer for the Osun gubernatorial election, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe,  on Sunday morning,  declared Adeleke of the PDP,  winner of the Osun governorship election, held on July 16. He announced that Adeleke polled   403,371 votes to defeat his closet rival, Gov. Gboyega Oyetola, the candidate of the APC, who scored 375,027 votes. Ogundipe, who is the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, said that the Action Democratic Party (ADP) scored 10,104 to come third. He also said that the Accord Party candidate scored 4,515 and came fourth.