The African Union (AU), has donated fighting equipment to boost the couter-insurgency operations of the Multinational Joint Task Force in the Lake Chad region. This is contained in a statement issued by Chief of Military Public Information, MNJTF, Lt.-Col, Kamarudeen Adegoke, from the MNJTF Headquaters N’Djamena Chad on Tuesday. Adegoke said the donation of was done through the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC). He said the equipment included Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs); Troops Carrying Vehicles, Buses, high caliber generators, Counter Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) equipment, and office equipment among others. He said the equipment were handed over to the recipients’ Troops Contributing Countries ( TCCs) of Nigeria, Niger, and Chad after the necessary paperwork and authorisation by the AU. According to him, the approval is sequel to the visit of the Force Commander, MNJTF, Maj.-Gen Abdul Khalifah Ibrahim to the AU Continental Logistics Base in Doula, Cameroon in November 2021 where he inspected and identified various equipment that would be useful in its counter-nsurgency operations. “The Force Commander in company of the Theatre Commander (TC), Operation Hadin Kai , Maj.-Gen. Christopher Musa, formally handed over the equipment to Sector 3 of the MNJTF on July 13 in Maimalari Military Cantonment, Maiduguri in Borno. “The items were received by the Commander Sector 3 Maj.-Gen. GM Mutkut at the headquarters in Monguno, North East Nigeria,” he said. The Force Commander Maj.-Gen. Khalifah said the equipment were given to the sector to improve their combat efficiency in war zones and praised the doggedness of the Sector in the course of Operation Lake Sanity, urging them to do more. The Theatre Commander, Maj.-Gen. Musa appreciated the AU for the donations, saying with such donations, the North East operational environment would soon be secured. He added that the new equipment would allow the forces to concentrate on other security challenged areas in the country. The  Commander Sector 3 appreciated the AU and LCBC through the FC and stated that the equipment would be well maintained and deployed effectively against the Insurgents.