The International Labour Organisation (ILO) says it will continue to support Nigeria in strengthening  Labour Migration Governance in the country. The ILO Country Director to Nigeria, Vanessa Phala, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Abuja. Phala said the ILO was collaborating with the Ministry of Labour and Employment and other social partners in improving Labour migration governance for the protection and promotion of rights of migrant workers. She said that currently the ILO Global Estimates on International Migrant Workers had risen to 169 million that constituted nearly five per cent of the global labour market. According to Phala, “there is a lot of work that we are doing with our social partners; this is in terms of providing service to potential detainee migrant workers. “Our collaboration is mainly in improving overall Labour Migration Policy that will be beneficial to migrant workers. “In this regard, ILO recognises the legitimate human and labour right only when it is done within the confines of established laws and procedures and works also in consonance with the International Labour Standards. “This is in order to protect and to promote the rights of all migrant workers, especially women”, she said. She added that migration was  an increasingly important policy issue as economic hardship and geo-political crises were leading to lack of decent work, resulting  to growing diverse migratory movements. Phala, however, said ILO had been supporting Nigeria  with the legislation at the national level and in the revision of the Nation Policy on Labour Migration. According to her, this policy provides the framework on how to manage labour migration. “We are also working to strengthen the capacity of the migrant’s resource centres, this is in order to provide advice and support the potential detainee migrants. “We are promoting fair recruitment practices, protecting migrant workers rights and also advancing labour migrants’ data and statistics; basically, it is trying to make available information that will empower the detainees. “It also empowers us to see the opportunities for them, to advance their economic situation in the country,’’ Phala said.