*Confirms Joe Ohiani as ICRC Director-General The Senate, on Wednesday, confirmed Umar Yahaya as Co-Chairman of the Governing Council of Unclaimed Funds Trust Fund. Yahaya’s confirmation was sequel to the consideration of a report by the Committee on Banking, Insurance and Other Financial Institutions. Chairman of the Committee, Senator Uba Sani (APC – Kaduna Central), in his presentation, said Mr. Yahaya’s appointment was in accordance with the provisions of Section 77(5) of the Finance Act, 2020. According to the lawmaker, “the nominee possesses the academic qualifications, technical knowledge and professional experience to be appointed Co-Chairman of the Governing Council of Unclaimed Funds Trust Fund.” He disclosed that the panel did not receive any petition against Yahaya’s nomination, adding that he was cleared by the Nigeria Police Force, Department of State Services (DSS) and possesses the Code of Conduct Acknowledgement slip. JOE OHIANI IS ICRC DIRECTOR-GENERAL The Senate has confirmed the nomination of Mr. Joe Aniku Michael Ohiani as Director-General of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC). The nominee’s confirmation followed the consideration of the Committee on Works. Chairman of the Committee, Senator Adamu Aliero (PDP – Kebbi Central), in his presentation, said Ohiani was asked questions on the mandate of ICRC, and how he would apply the knowledge and experience gathered over time to enhance the workings of the Commission. The lawmaker informed his colleagues that, “the nominee responded intelligently and provided satisfactory answers to all questions asked.” The panel, in its recommendation, stated that, “after careful and diligent assessment of the nominee’s extensive resume, performance during the screening exercise, knowledge, experiencer and character, the Committee considers him suitable for confirmation as the Director-General of the Infrastructure Regulatory Commission.” The nominee was confirmed, thereafter, by the upper chamber.