The Enugu Electricity Distribution Company PLC (EEDC) has lamented the increasing rate at which its electricity installations are being attacked by vandals, stressing that if not immediately checked, most of its customers will not be able to enjoy power supply. It therefore called on its customers to be more vigilant. The Head, Corporate Communications, EEDC, Mr. Emeka Ezeh, relayed this during a chat with newsmen in Enugu on Thursday. Ezeh disclosed that vandals have taken advantage of the poor power generation experienced across the sector, which has direct impact on EEDC’s daily energy allocation, and supply availability to its customers. He said that the company records cases of vandalized substations almost on a daily basis, and that most of them have been vandalized multiple times, thereby leaving the company in perpetual replacement of vandalized parts of these equipment. “We are spending millions of Naira fixing these vandalized substations, and with our current financial position, this is no longer sustainable” “Customers are therefore encouraged to be more vigilant in ensuring that electricity installations cited within their neighborhood are protected against attack, and not allow themselves to be thrown into darkness and discomfort by these criminal elements in the society. Ezeh recounted that over the weekend, a suspected vandal identified as Nnanna Uyamudu was arrested by men of Oyi Police Division who were on patrol. He was apprehended along Airport Road and was in possession of a large quantity of coated aluminum conductor as exhibit recovered from the vandalism carried out along Ukpor junction, Anambra State. He went further to say that some weeks ago, at Umuanwu Umuodo, Isiala North Local Government Area, a vandal suspect identified as Ikenna Obimba, was arrested by the villagers for vandalizing EEDC installation in the area. In a related development, the trio of Chinonso Ogu, Ifeanyi Nnachi and Ibiam Amah, were apprehended by some members of the Electricity Committee of the town for attacking a 500KVA distribution substation belonging to EEDC at Owerri, Imo State. He confirmed that the suspects were all handed over to the respective Police Commands for further investigation and possible prosecution. Ezeh further appealed to its customers who have been expressing concern over the drop in supply availability that once power generation improves, it will definitely impact on their availability, but while this is being managed, they should protect the substations serving them. He went on to thank the various vigilante groups and state security agencies for their support in clamping down these bad eggs in our society who have sworn to frustrate the efforts of EEDC and subject its customers to untold inconveniences.