L-R: Commander 9 Brigade Nigerian Army, Ikeja Cantonment, Brig-Gen Isang Akpaumontia; Lagos Commissioner of Police (CP), Mr. Abiodun Alabi; Lagos Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Attorney General & Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN); Immigration Comptroller, Bagiwa Mani and others, during a briefing of State House Correspondents after the State Security Meeting at Lagos House, Ikeja, on Tuesday, May 24, 2022. Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday said the State Government will go ahead with its proposed ban on motorcycles, known as Okada on highways and six local governments and nine Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) from June 1, this year. He said security services and Lagos State Government are on the same page in respect to banning of the motorcycles in the selected areas of the State and therefore they will be going ahead with the plans. Governor Sanwo-Olu spoke to journalists, on Tuesday evening, after the State Security Meeting, held at the Lagos House, Ikeja, which was attended by heads of security services in the State. The Governor said his administration in conjunction with security agencies will ensure that the security architecture of the state is not compromised in any way so that Lagos residents will continue to live their lives and do their business without any fear or favour. He said: “The security meeting gives us an opportunity for us to review the recent pronouncement on the future banning of Okada (motorcycles) in some selected local governments and LCDAs. “We are able to put strategies in place. All of us were able to identify a lot of other things we need to do to embark on advocacy and ensure that we communicate effectively and efficiently to citizens. And that is why you see us giving out handbills in all of the major languages that we have in the country. “There is a radio jingle being sent out to also communicate to people. I am also aware that there is a plan for advocacy on television stations as well. “It is a people driven initiative that we all agreed to live and to comport ourselves in similar manner. And we know what has been the effect of this. So, I am happy that all of us, the security operatives and government are on the same page with this and we will also be going ahead with our plans.” Governor Sanwo-Olu also assured all political parties in the State of adequate security in the ongoing delegates and primary elections ahead of the 2023 general elections. He said: “The other thing that we discussed for public knowledge is around ensuring that the ongoing primaries and delegates elections that are happening in different parts of the state by different political parties have sufficient security coverage. “We enjoin that various political parties should approach the Lagos State Police Command to give them adequate security at various venues where they are conducting their various delegate and primary elections for various positions people are vying for. “It is purely to ensure that there are no gaps and that the security architecture of the state is not compromised in any way and our citizens can continue to live their lives and do their business without any fear or favour.”