WorldStage Nesonline– Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, the President African Development Bank (AfDB) Group, says the bank will continue to make Africa proud by supporting implementation of impactful and life-transforming projects across the continent. Adesina said via a tweet on Sunday, through his verified tweeter handle @akin_adesina that “This day in 2015, I was first elected president of the AfDB. Six years later, the Bank was named the Best Multilateral Financial Institution in the world, and 4th most transparent institution in the world. We will keep making Africa proud.” He said that he was delighted at Global Finance’s recognition of the AfDB as the best multilateral financial institution in the world in 2021. “I am proud that for the first time since its establishment in 1964, the Bank has risen to a position as a foremost globally-respected financial institution.” Adesina described the award as one which was “duly earned”. He, however, credited the bank’s continued success to a new culture of results, strong client orientation, leadership, creativity and continued innovation by a team of excellent staff across all its jurisdictions. According to him, we are constantly innovating, developing and deploying financial, investment and knowledge products to meet the rapidly changing needs of African countries and the private sector. “In 2021, the U.S. magazine, Global Finance, specialising in financial markets and investment banking named the AfDB as the “Best Multilateral Financial Institution in the world for 2021. “The award is a global recognition for the path breaking efforts of the bank as it transforms itself into a solutions bank for Africa. “The bank achieves this through a combination of its operations, knowledge services and investment positioning, which continue to help accelerate Africa’s development.” Furthermore, Mr Joseph Giarraputo, the Publisher and Editorial Director of Global Finance said investment banks would play a leading role in reshaping the world economy after the COVID-19 pandemic. “With widespread expectations of consolidation in multiple sectors and all around the world, investment banks will play a leading role in reshaping the world economy post-pandemic,” “Companies need more than ever to understand the specialties and skills that investment banks bring to the table. Global Finance awards are a valuable guide.” The award is an affirmation of the success of the operational strategy being pursued by the AfDB under the leadership of Adesina, who was unanimously re-elected to a second consecutive five-year term as president.