L-R: Ogun State Deputy Governor, Noimot Salako-Oyedele; Governor Dapo Abiodun; his wife, Bamidele Abiodun and Chairman Ogun State governorship primary election, Wale Ohu, while the governor gives his acceptance speech at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta on Thursday, May 26, 2022 …thanks party faithful, promises to deliver more dividends of democracy Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Thursday evening, emerged the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state for next year’s general elections. Abiodun secured the victory to pursue his second term bid at the party’s primary election held at the MKO Abiola Int’l Stadium,.Kuto, Abeokuta, the state capital. The incumbent governor contested the election with five other aspirants: Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade; Biyi Otegbeye; Modele Sarafa-Yusuf; Owodunni Opayemi and Remi Bakare. Abiodun polled a total of 1,168 votes out of 1,170 delegates accredited votes to defeat other contestants who scored no vote. Two votes were however voided. The exercise which was conducted by the five-man electoral panel, led by Wale Ohu, was monitored by the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), led by the Director of Elections and Party Monitor, Mrs. Oyafunke Olanike. Ohu announced Abiodun as the winner of the election after delegates drawn from the 236 wards of 20 local government areas of the state, cast their votes. According to Ohu, 1,170 delegates were accredited for the election. “Prince Adedapo Abiodun, having scored the highest majority vote cast is hereby declared the winner of the APC governorship primary election in Ogun state and he is hereby declared the governorship candidate of APC to stand in the 2023 governorship election in the state”, Ohu said. Abiodun in his acceptance speech, described the election as a victory for the people of the state. “This is definitely a day to remember. It is a day of victory – a victory that I will savour for all my life. It is a day the majority of our party men and women spoke with one voice. It is a day that an overwhelming 100 per cent was scored in an electoral process in Nigeria. I am excited. I am grateful and I promise not to let you down. “A 100 per cent in any exam is the mark of genius. While I do not claim to be one, I am challenged by it. In a democracy, it is a resounding vote of confidence. You know it is one thing to support one on paper; on the social media or on the face value. This is real life and not mere audio endorsement. In a free and fair contest, it speaks volume about a people’s love for their own. “I will continue to carry out the office of governor in such a way that those who voted for me today can take pride in having done so. Let me also assure you that those who will be my opponents in the general elections would be pleasantly surprised and have no choice than to join us in our Vision of “Building Our Future Together”. “During these uncertain times, my highest commitment is to be your bipartisan voice in the state so that we can achieve our shared goals. Our state is one that has been built by our compassion towards each other, our commitment to decency, and our faith in our neighbours. “Now is the time for us to be more united as a people so that we can genuinely continue to improve on our economy, create more rewarding jobs, provide more effective and easily accessible healthcare, and ensure that every student receives improved education”, Abiodun submitted.