Super Eagles’ coach José Peseiro has opted for positivity and pragmatism as he starts his managerial stint with Nigeria on Saturday in Dallas, U.S. The Portuguese is having to deal with the forced absence of a number of key players, including team captain Ahmed Musa, from the friendly games against Mexico and Ecuador. Musa, and goalkeeper Maduka Okoye, defenders Zaidu Sanusi and Abdullahi Shehu, midfielders Oghenekaro Etebo, Azubuike Okechukwu, Alhassan Yusuf and Samson Tijani, and forwards Samuel Chukwueze and Sadiq Umar are unavailable. They were unable to make it to the U.S. as a combination of factors, including visa hitches, injuries and career concerns took their toll. “You have to be practical and face the challenges when they come this way or any other way. “We would have loved to have everyone here and see how well they have put the 2022 FIFA World Cup miss behind them and forged on. “But what we have is what we have. I have chosen to be positive and I have resolved to work hard to use the resources available to make Nigeria great again,” Peseiro said. The coach however said he was happy to have such an excellent pool of players who are committed and ready to give their all every time. “This situation was not something they created: challenges do turn up that way. “We have a number of options who have been told to rise up to the occasion. “Every player who gets the chance to wear the Nigeria jersey should be proud of that opportunity and give it their all.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that three-time African champions Nigeria are up against the senior national teams of Mexico and Ecuador in Dallas and Harrison respectively. It is the team’s first gathering and run-out since narrowly missing a ticket to the FIFA World Cup finals in Qatar in March. The Eagles will take on Mexico’s El Tri, perennial CONCACAF champions, at the AT & T Stadium in Arlington on Saturday as from 7 p.m. Texas time (1 a.m Sunday in Nigeria). However, team’s deputy captain William Ekong and forwards Moses Simon and Alex Iwobi are in as the Eagles get set for the clash with the Mexicans on Saturday night. Goalkeeper Francis Uzoho, defenders Olaoluwa Aina and Chidozie Awaziem, midfielders Joseph Ayodele-Aribo and Innocent Bonke, and forwards Cyril Dessers and Terem Moffi are also part of the party. Eight home-based professionals, including goalkeeper Olorunleke Ojo, defender Ibrahim Buhari, midfielder Chiamaka Madu and forwards Victor Mbaoma and Ishaq Kayode Rafiu are also in the U.S. to fight for shirts. Uzoho and Awaziem departed from Istanbul on Thursday morning and arrived the team’s The Adolphus Hotel in the evening, taking the number of players in camp to 19. Only forward Cyriel Dessers was still being expected on Friday morning. After the clash with El Tri, the Super Eagles’ contingent will head to Harrison on Sunday for their friendly against Ecuador at the Red Bull Arena on Thursday. The two matches have been designed as physical, mental and psychological reawakening for the Super Eagles. This is ahead of next month’s 2023 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) .qualifying duels with Sierra Leone and Mauritius in Abuja and St. Pierre respectively. NAN reports that Nigeria host Sierra Leone at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium on June 9 from 5 p.m. They will then head to St. Pierre for their encounter with the Les Dodos of Mauritius at the Cote D’Or National Sports Complex as from 1 p.m. Mauritius time (10 a.m Nigeria time) on June 13. PLAYERS AVAILABLE FOR THE MATCHES========================== Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (AC Omonia, Cyprus); Adewale Adeyinka (Akwa United); Ojo Olorunleke (Enyimba International FC) Defenders: Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy); William Ekong (Watford FC, England); Chidozie Awaziem (Alanyaspor FC, Turkey); Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England) Calvin Bassey (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Ibrahim Buhari (Plateau United); Sani Faisal (Katsina United) Midfielders: Joseph Ayodele-Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Alex Iwobi (Everton FC, England) Chiamaka Madu (Rivers United); Innocent Bonke (FC Lorient, France); Babatunde Bello (Akwa United) Forwards: Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France); Cyriel Dessers (Feyenoord FC, The Netherlands) Victor Mbaoma (Enyimba International FC); Ishaq Rafiu (Rivers United); Terem Moffi (FC Lorient, France)