WorldStage Newsonline– The Minister, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Engr. Suleiman Adamu, has called on the members of Nigeria National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage (NINCID) to ensure a paradigm shift from the traditional and unregulated irrigation practices in Nigeria to a more sustainable land and water use management approach. Engr. Adamu  gave this charge on Monday, Via Zoom during the meeting of National Irrigation Forum on Institutional Strengthening and Management of Public Irrigation Schemes in Nigeria and the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of NINCID holding in Ibadan, Oyo State. Engr Adamu stated that Nigeria is endowed with water resources but the sustainability of this endowment is threatened by land degradation, deforestation, rapid population growth and other social-economic development including the effect of climate change. The Minster further noted that these myriad of challenges can be arrested through stimulation and promotion of development and application of arts, science and techniques of engineering, agriculture, economics, ecology and social science in managing water and land resources for irrigation, drainage, flood control and river training alongside related research. Speaking on the expectations from the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Nigeria National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage (NINCID), the Minister revealed that the AGM  was geared towards bringing together various stakeholders and experts within the sector to deliberate, share ideas, knowledge and experiences on how to advance Irrigation and Drainage practices in Nigeria, adding that it was expected that members will come up  with resolutions that will further consolidate irrigation practice for the attainment of sustainable irrigation and water management in Nigeria. In her Opening remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Mrs. Didi Walson-Jack noted that NINCID as a knowledge- based sharing platform was dedicated to improving the status of irrigated agriculture and management, including rain-fed agriculture driven by experts’, contributions for the development, and acceleration of irrigation and drainage practices in Nigeria. She added that as part of its development effort, NINCID had established a forum called Young Professional Forum with members drawn within the sector such as Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR),  River Basin Development Authorities (RBDAs), and National Water Resources Institute (NWRI) amongst others. She expressed optimism that the Committee will discuss ways and means of strengthening the Young Professionals Forum and suggested options for its sustainability; and also generate resolutions that will reposition NINCID to operate optimally. Earlier in her welcome address, Chairperson of NINCID and the Director of Irrigation and Drainage, Federal Ministry of Water Resources,Mrs Oyeronke Oluniyi recalled that NINCID is a subsidiary of International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage ( ICID), a leading Techno- Scientific non governmental and non profit making International Organization dedicated to the improvement of Water and Land management to enhance worldwide supply of food and fiber for humankind. She urged members to participate maximally and develop sustainable ways of ensuring that NINCID activities grow in more beneficial ways. Present at the meeting were Directors of Irrigation, Country Representatives, retired Irrigation Directors, members of the Academia and Water Stakeholders