WorldStage Newsonline– A former minister of state for defence, Sen. Musiliu Obanikoro has lost the APC Lagos West Senatorial primaries  ticket. Obanikoro lost to  Mrs  Idiat Adebule, a  former deputy  governor of  Lagos State. Recall that Obanikoro’s son, Rep. Babajide Obanikoro (APC -Etiosa) also lost the APC ticket for a return to the House of Representatives in the area on Friday. Adebule defeated Obanikoro with 424 votes as against 119 and third Aspirant Mr Kayode Opeifa,  who  polled four votes. Mr Emeka Okafor, APC Electoral Returning Officer who announced the result,  said Adebule scored 424 votes to emerge the Lagos West APC Senatorial candidate for the 2023 general elections. According to him, Adebule polled 424 votes, Obanikoro -119 votes and Opeifa four votes. “We have 557 total votes cast, with 10 invalid votes. “I hereby declare Dr Idiat Adebule  winner of APC Lagos West Senatorial Primary election,” he said. Adebule in her acceptance speech thanked the party leaders and delegates for their support toward her victory. The former deputy governor urged the electorate to give their full support to the party in  the 2023  general elections. She assured the constituents of  proper and good representation at the National Assembly. Meanwhile, Sen. Obanikoro has said that he was displeased with the process and eventual outcome of the APC  Lagos West Senatorial primaries  on Saturday. Obanikoro, one of the three aspirants that contested  for the party’s ticket, made this known shortly after the exercise was concluded at the Agege Stadium. Obanikoro, however, rejected the result, saying that the exercise was fraught with intimidations and other malpractices which he  would address with the party in due course. The former minister reiterated his earlier stand that the acclaimed winner was not even qualified to stand for the election. “This is because she did not participate in the electoral process of obtaining the Expression of Interest and  Nomination Forms, nor  did she participate in the screening which she did not also submit to. “Therefore, it is obvious that the exercise was designed to favour the acclaimed winner who was not even qualified to stand  for the election,” he said. Obanikoro his grievances and all other necessary steps would be made formal to the party.